Article ids: [25596302, 25592112, 25623023, 25583510, 25616015, 25583410, 25603501, 25769711, 25788597, 25786649, 25585614, 25790940, 25579943, 25593477, 25785496, 25777247, 25759104, 25599753, 25614473, 25581170, 25580492, 25787932, 25612951, 25600453, 25627440, 25606065, 25581089, 25622169, 25621520, 25611876, 25771475, 25596648, 25601200, 25607505, 25762642, 25601684, 25580435, 25781333, 25589620, 25610157]
Article bodies: [ JAPAN'S DOMINEERING

 ATTITUDE

 IT is now possible to form an

 accurate estimate of the real

 attitude and intentions of Japan. The Japanese Prime Minister, left them in 
no doubt when he said that the conversations with Brit- ish representatives in 
Tokio con- cerning Tientsin would be broken off unless Britain agreed to ac- 
cept the Japanese right to build

 a new order in the Far East. This

 is the last word in unscrupulous- ness when it is demanded that another 
nation shall assist in ag- gression.

 According to "The Times" cor- respondent in Shanghai, the Japanese military 
authorities blame the British for their failure to overcome the Chinese. These 
things are all part of the general plan intended to eliminate British power and 
influence from China, and it becomes clearer with every utterance, either of 
Ministers or Army leaders, that this and this alone governs their methods.

 The continued delay regarding a settlement of the Tientsin, dis- pute is 
another means of be- littling Britain. It is by now ob- vious that unless 
something much more drastic than repeated pro- tests is offered, Japan will 
main- tain her impudent anti-British policy. The economic blockade is within 
the capacity of Britain, and is apparently the remedy which Japan fears most. 
It seems as if the moment is near whea it

 should be applied.

,  STATE GOVERNMENT'S ATTITUDE

 (JLAIMIXC1 there «ns no Justification I

 for the suggested removal of the embargo, the Minister for Agriculture

 (Mr.-R. Cosgrove) yesterday outlined | the efforts made by the Tasmanian 
Government to ease the restrictions In regard to grading in view of the recent 
shortage of supplies.

 The Minister said thut the Govern- ment had consistently opposed the re- 
moval of tho embargo. It had the full support of the Potato Marketing Board and 
producers' organisations In Its at- titude. He was advised that Tasmania could 
supply Its quota for the Austra- lian market, provided there was a slight 
modification In the standards. If this were done potatoes could be supplied at 
a price which would enable many more consumers to purchase than under existing 
conditions.

 After consultation with the Potato

 Marketing Hoard yesterday, lt was pointed out to the Minister for Agri- 
culture for New South Wales that, In view of the heavy rain ' after many weeks 
of drought weather, lt was ex- pected that some tubers would develop growth, 
cracks, and other slight ab- normalities calculated to affect the ap- pearance, 
rather than the quality. It was suggested that No. 2 "A" grade bo permitted to 
enter New South Wales. If so lt would have a steady- ing effect on recent 
prices.

 The Minister pointed out that while abnormally high prices were not good for 
any industry, the consuming public had, In several years in tho last decade, 
secured potatoes at considerably less than the cost of production, and the 
higher prices now ruling would recoup growers to some extent for prevlou«

 losses.

,  SOUTH AFRICA'S

 ATTITUDE

 STRANGELY must sound thc

 words of the Prime Minister of South Africa (General Hert- zog) in the cars 
of British people. Referring to the statement of Mr. Chamberlain, that the 
whole Em- pire approved of the guarantee to Poland, General Hertzog dis- agreed 
and said he doubted thc accuracy of it. Maintaining that the Dominions were not 
bound by Britain's commitments in Europe, he refused to permit a debate on 
.loreign affairs.

 Had these been the views ex-

 pressed in a hostile country, little surprise could bc felt. But com- ing 
from the head of one of the Dominions the)' have a peculiar meaning, lt is true 
that the Do- minions are not bound by Brit- ain, but it is also true that they 
depend on British strength for their existence as part of the Em- pire. 
Possibly General Hertzog

 does not like the connection and

 would prefer something different.

 Under General Hertzog's lead- ership, South Africa has deposed the British 
flag from its position, eliminated "God Save the King" as the National Anthem, 
and has constantly asserted that he re- serves the right to be neutral in any 
war affecting Britain. Neu- trality in such circumstances would seem to verge 
perilously near hostility. "He who is not with nie is against me," should 
express the opinion of the Empire in regard to General Hertzog.

,  Britain's Attitude Perfectly Loyal

 jyj^ BONNET'S eagerly-awaited

 speech in the Chamber of Deputies proved most important and covered a wide 
range. Mr. Winston Churchill (the British Conservative), listened In the 
strangers' gallery.

 Referring to Spain, M. Bonnet- slid that the part Italy «*as taking co*ild 
not be Ignored, but the arguments against Intervention remained.

 "We consider It Is for Spaniards alone to settle their own affairs," said M. 
Bonnet. "We «ill not alio«* our com- munications with North Africa to lie en- 
dangered by foreign troups in Sp-iin or from Morocco or from Spanish islands. 
When we informed our British friends o( this viewpoint they perfectly under- 
stood us. Britain's attitude has been per- fectly loyal, France has Interests 
to de- fend in Spain. We cannot allow any interference in Spain to extend to the
 point of threatening French Integrl'v. The Burgos Government has let it be 
known that it will not alio«' any foreign Po«*er to settle in the country 
(another version was that General Franco told us he «*ould not allow any 
foreign domina- tion In Spain). Britain is no less men- aced regarding Malta 
and Gibraltar

 Complete Solidarity

 "I can therefore affirm that there is complete Anglo-French solidarity on 
this question," said M. Bonnet, who added that the British Foreign Minister 
(Lord Halifax) had informed him that Britain would not accept any infringe- 
ment of Spanish territorial Integrity,

 M. Bonnet said that Britain and France would ask nothing of anyone, but 
intended to preserve their patri monies. The entente was never so

 close.

 It was directed towards peace, but in the event uf war all the forces of 
France would be placed at the disposal of Britain, and similarly all the forces 
of Britain would be placed at the disposal

 of France.

 M. Bonnet reiterated that the policy of non-intervention In Spain was 
?unchanged.

 M. Bonnet declared that the Franco British axis «-as as strong HS any in 
Europe. France «'anted to seo Britain develop her military power to the maxi- 
mum, just as Britain wished France to

 do likewise.

 Referring to the Franco-German peace declaration signed in Paris., II. 
Bonnet said it was but the first step towards pacific collaboration. War would 
be a misfortune for both nations.

 Turning to Franco-Italian relations, he recalled that during the last con- 
versations In Rome between Count Clano and M. Poncet it was agreed that the 
only differences related to Spain. Three weeks later Italy denounced the 1935 
Agreement and France replied that «he could not accept Italy's vle«'point 
because no political act on her part justllled that denunciation. The French 
Government felt that the British Government understood this viewpoint'

 perfectly.

 "France is determined to maintain the integrity of her umpire," he said "Let 
there be no ambiguity. Nobody may lay a finger on our Umpire. France will not 
permit any attempt against what has been built up by Preñen blood bravely and 
she «ill keep her in- dependence and her territories Intact.''

 Support in America

 M. Bonnet, alluding to the Far Enst, said that the Government wns deter- 
mined not to allow any attack against French interests. "We shall not admit 
that an agreement like the Treaty of "Washington can be unilaterally de- 
nounced," he said. "Engagements with the Soviet and with Poland con- tinue, and 
must be carried out In the spirit In which they were contracted.''

 With reference to Frunco-Amerlcnn relations, M. Bonnet said: "Every dny we 
feel that public opinion In the great

 M. BONNET

 French Foreign Minister, who said that France wai determined to maintain the 
integrity of her

 Empire.

 i

 American demociacj Is coming closer

 to us

 Discussing the possibility of an In- ternational conference ho said that the 
Go\einment «as willing to convoke such a confeience If it «eie found ne tessury 
in the inteiests of colliboi a tion The ni mamen ti lace threatened to biing 
l^uiope to bankruptcy or war but they must be«aie of dlsippolnt

 ment

 He concluded b\ saying 'Manne has teco*>ered her influence und Is read\ for 
an\ eventualltj 'Mobilisation in Sep tembPi showed hei Using as one min She 
«ould do the same again Those abioad who aie counting on Trench decadence ha\e 
cruel suiprises await- ing them

 The speech was applauded by all Deputies except Communists and So

 clalists

 1 JIP Chambei by 609 \otes to nil ngieed to a confidence motion drawn up bj 
the Radical Deputy M Teij as fol- lows The Chiimbei appio\es the Gov- ernment s 
declination and is confident in its \igllnnce to maintain the integiity of the 
French Emplie and the safet*, of impel lal louies

 M. Daladier Outspoken

 1 he Pi ime MInl«ter (M Daladier) spoke stern words to Itali duilng the 
Chamber of Deputies debate in which M Bonnet made his speech He ssid amid 
applause tiance has heard threatening wolds fiom Italj in com- plete calm She 
has the strength to en- able hei to iecel\o such insulls calmly \Mieie\ei 
trench Inteiests ale con- cerned Trance must meei demands « l'h categorical 
firmness. Not one inch of territoi\ will be ceded Allow me to de- cíale with 
foice that Hiance canrot toleiate an\ attempt against hei terri loilal in te-, 
i it \ against her African or colonial emplie oi against hei fiee com- 
munications whethet maritime or olhetulse between the metropolis and hei emplie

 Deputies at this stage io<-e cheering thunderousl)

 M Daladier continued 1 am well aware of the gra\ltj of the piesint 
cliciimslanies when I allirm this Our task tomonow will be hard and formid- 
able I ask 1 lance to be unanimous In defence of her material empile and ideals 
In a «orld in which foi ce plijs so large a pal t

 The Chamber again lesounded wth an outburst of patilotlc enthusiasm and the 
long foieitn affairs debate then ended The vote ot confidence In he Oo\ el 
nment «as cal lied b> 360 \otes> to 1.134

,  STATE TREASURER'S ATTITUDE

 .J^HE Treasurer (Mr. E. Dwyer

 Gray) expressed the hope yes- terday that the Federal Parliamen tary'Labour 
Party would not preju- dice its position by sanctioning defiance of thc law by 
any section of community, once the National Register Bill became law. Mr. 
Dwyer-Gray is one of the'represen tatives of the Federal Executive of the 
A.L.P. on the Federal Labour Advisory Committee, a meeting of which has been 
summoned for to- day at Canberra. Owing, to the short notice he received he 
will be unable to. attend.

 Mr. Dwyer-Gray said the other repre- sentatives ot the Federal Executive "t 
the Australian Labour Party on the Federal Advisory Committee were two 
representatives each from the Federal Labour Tarty and the Australasian

 Council nf Trades Unions. He had re- ceived on Wednes- day a telegram from 
Mr. D. ' L. McNa- mara, M.L.C., Ked rra 1 secretary of the A.L.I'., nsking him 
tn attend a meeting nf the Advisory Committee at Can- berra today, to dis- cuss 
the Xn tiona 1 ' Register Hill. He

 had replied that the

 notice was ton ' short, and that he

 would be linn ble lo

 attend unless the meeting was held in Welbourne nu Monday, or at Canberra on 
Tuesday. Mr. McNamara had re- plied that the mn tier was considered ur- gent 
and that the committee would meet .today. This meant lhat someone else would 
have lo take his pince on the committee tor that particular meet- ing. ; - :

 Mr. Dwyer-Cíniy said thal as far as he was concerned he had nut changed his 
views regardln;; any aspect nt pre- paredness, nnd'cnncitrred with the view 
expressed by the Tasmanian Ijtbour Conference In April that "there should he 
forthwith' Instituted n compulsory national . register for both men' and

 women, and also ot material assets to'

 asrertain the physical, material, indus- trial, and financial resources of 
the na- tion."

 "Should Be Observed"

 Differences ot opinion on such a mat- ter were natural and entirely 
legitimate, but actual breaches of the law would not be. He trusted, therefore, 
that, If thc Federal Parliament instituted nny sort of compulsory register the 
require- ments of the law would be observed by Australian democracy. Any type ot
 proposed opposition tu law, except vio- lence, was allowable In a democracy, 
but once the law-making Instru- mentalities of a democracy passed In actual 
law, they should be faithfully observed unless and until they were 
constitutionally altered.

 "I, therefore, hope that the Federal Parliamentary Labour Party will not 
prejudice its position beTore the pub- lic by approving of any defiance of the 
law by any section of the community," said Mr. Dwyer-Gray. "I would have said 
that at the Advisory Committee if I were in attendance, and conse- quently I 
have no hesitation in saying it in public, when I will not be in attendance."

 Mr. Dwyer-Gray said he could not understand the argument thal a com- pulsory 
register would facilitate thc conscription of men for mllitnry service, since 
under the Defence Act the Men- zies Government could conscript every- body in 
Australia today, following a simple proclamation that Australia was imperilled 
by Invasion.

 Threatened Action

 MELBOURNE, June 8.

 Seven delegates representing groups were appointed today by the confer once 
of Federal unions with members employed in "key" industries as a sub- committee 
to investigate ways and means of implementing tho "Industrial action" 
threatened In the event of any trades unionist being imprisoned for refusing tn 
sign the national register.

 This committee will submit a report and recommendations to the conference 
when lt assembles after the meeting of the Labour Federal Advisory Com- mittee 
at Canberra tomorrow.

 Mr. E. Dwyer-Gray

,  STOP PRESS NEWS

 ÜRErfÖH ATtiruM , . .

 PAftl$. January SÔ.-^ovéinAÎM .Xpact»d-TO»fflnn «Wet iton'intorviia.

,  President's Attitude

 WASHINGTON, July 1.

 Officials today disclaimed knowledge that there was any bnBis for London ru- 
mours that President Roosevelt ls will- ing to participate In a world problems 
conference, but recalled his recent mes- sages Io Herr Hitler and Signor Mus- 
solini offering to act as a "friendly in- termediary" in the settlement of Euro-
 pean differences.

 They said that should such a confer- ence be called by another Power, and 
Germany and Italy expressed willing- ness to participate, there was a prob- 
ability that the United States would Join the conference in the role President 
Roosevelt previously had outlined.

,  NATIONAL DISUNITY

 Australian Attitude

 Deplored

 The disunity amone political parties In Australia with regard to the prose- 
cution of the war was deplored by Mrs. V. Mary Parker at the annual confer- 
ence of the Australian Women's National League of Tasmania at Hobart yesterday.

 In Great Britain there was a unity of opinion among all peoples, Mrs. Parker 
said. There was only one object, and that was to win the war. In Australia, 
however, there were party factions and sniRll coteries which criticised the Gov-
 ernment and would not assist In the programme designed to bring the war to a 
successful conclusion. They were doing everything they could to hinder what wns 
being done. Women could help to Inculcate a spirit of loyalty among tho people. 
Unity wa« essential and everyone should unite to fight tue

 common enemy.

,  SERVICE PAY

 Brighton Council's

 Attitude

 "With, the object ot giving a lead to employers ot labour In the district, 
the Brighton Connell at Its meeting at Pontville yesterday decided to make up 
any deficiency In pay for a permanent roadman called up for military ser-

 vice.

 lt was reported that a man who recently was appointed a permanent roadman 
Itnd been called up for 30 days' training at Mona Vale.

 Councillor C. H. Eddington said he felt il was thc duty ot the council to 
give a lead to employers of labour in the municipality. He moved: -

 The council pay any difference in thc salary ot Its permanent roadman dur- 
ing the 311 days he is called up for military service.

 Councillor B. C. '1'honipsou seconded and the motion was agreed to.

,  "NO CHANGE IN ATTITUDE"

 THE Finnish Foreign Minister, in a

 statement on Friday, said that Finland's attitude to the Russian pro- posals 
remained unchanged. "They would be offensive to us in peace time," he said. "We 
have accepted about two-thirds of them, but there is a limit to everything.

 "They have asked for a cession of land north from Leningrad, islands in the 
Gulf of Finland, and the lease of land on the southern coast for a mili- tary 
base."  

 He denied that other nations had in- fluenced Finland and said that Rus- sia 
must overcome her suspicions. Finland took her stand independently.

 In a broadcast, the Prime Minister made it plain that Finland could not make 
concessions inconsistent with her integrity and independence. He said he 
understood to a certain degree Rus- sia's desire to protect Leningrad, but 
added that the Soviet proposal to es- tablish a naval base in the Gulf of Fin- 
land was incompatible with Finland's sovereignty and neutrality.

 The Prime Minister added that Fin- land would defend herself if invaded.

 Sweden Attacked  

 Sweden is attacked in the semi- official Soviet paper "Pravda" "for 
supporting Finland," says a Moscow message. "Pravda" asserts that Swedish 
politicians are "under the orders of Destern bosses," and adds:

 "Russia must ensure the sea and land approaches to Leningrad, whose 
population is equal to that of Finland.

 "The position of the Finnish Foreign Minister (M. Erkko) is similar to that 
of the former Polish Foreign Minister (Col. Beck), when he provoked war with 
Germany.

 "Russia will cast to the devil all

 political gamblers' games, and tread her own path, despite everything, 
smashing every obstacle on the way to her goal."

 It is reported in diplomatic circles that Madame Kollontal, the Russian 
Ambassador to Sweden, flew to Mos-

 cow last week at M. Stalin's request in order to apprise him of the 
situation in Scandinavia. She urged him not to antagonise Sweden and Norway in 
the Finnish negotiations.

 It is believed that if Finland makes a stand, supported by Scan- dinavia, M. 
Stalin, rather than re- veal Russia's weakness will prefer a compromise to war, 
but if Finland weakens and Scandinavia adopts an indeterminate attitude, Russia 
may suddenly move.

 Madame Tabouis, whose assertions must be accepted with reserve, sup- ports 
this testimony to the extent of declaring that M. Stalin's new slogan is: "Keep 
out of Finland at all costs and come to terms with her."

 NEW YORK, November 5.

 The position of neutrals in northern and south-eastern Europe is reviewed by 
the editor of the Paris "Soir" in a despatch to the "New York Times." He says:

 "The small neutrals can do little be- cause of their weakness.

 "Among the Scandinavian nations, only Finland has the resources to en- able 
a guerilla war to be carried on against a Russian invasion, but she would be 
unable to save the coastal cities.

 "Diplomacy no longer has much to say. Scandinavia, and Britain and France 
can do little until Norway or Sweden are directly threatened and call for help, 
which is unlikely.

 "Should Finland be attacked, which I do not expect, it would unfortunately 
be doomed and its resurrection must await the final peace."

 Press Hostility

 Mr. G. E. R. Gedye, the "New York Times" correspondent in Moscow, says it is 
undeniable that the Soviet Press makes the Russo-Finnish situation very grave.

 "The present display of hostility to Finland is due to Soviet annoyance at 
indications of foreign sympathy and support, and it is doubtless desired to 
reduce the Finns to a proper humble- ness," Mr. Gedye continues.

 "The first warning in M. Molotov's speech failed to shake Finland's de-

 termination; the second is given in 'Pravda's' article, which may imply a 
threat of military action, but is more likely to be intended to fright- en the 
Swedes from supporting the Finns, thus destroying Scandinavian unity, and may 
presage a war of

 nerves.

 "Immediate developments depend on the Swedish reaction to Russia's open 
hostility."

 ROME, November 5.  

 It is reported in Rome that 80,000 Soviet troops have moved to Karelian, on 
the Finnish-Soviet frontier.

 BERLIN, November 5.

 The Wilhelmstrasse expresses com- plete disinterest in the Finnish-Soviet 
talks, "because the Finns are not pure- ly Aryan."

 It is expected that Russian troops will cross the Finnish frontier in the 
next few days, hoping that a limited advance will compel the Finns to yield to 
all the Soviet demands.

,  Attitude Of Government Appreciated

 WITH the exception of the Minister ' for Civil Aviation (Mr Thoibj)

 who is on the Mainland the entlie federal Cabinet attended the reception 
which was held in the lord Mavors reception room at the Hobart Town Hall In 
addition to the Piime Minlstei the guests Included the Minister for Commet ce 
(Sir Eat le Page) the Altor ne\ General (Mr Menzies) the Trea

 stuer (Major Case} ) the Minister for Defence (Bilgadler Street) the Minister
 for the Interloi (Mr McLvvan) the Postmaster Genet al (Mr Cameron) the 
Minister for External Affalis (Mt

 Hughes) the Minister foi Trade and Customs (Mr I elkins) the Minlbtei for 
Health and Ttepatiiation (benator Toll)

 the A'lce Piesident of the Lxecutlve Council (Senator McLeav) and the 
\=slstant Ministers (Senator Mue-Don aid and Messrs Harrison and Thomp- son) 
Theie were pie«ent also the I lent Covcinor (Sir lohn Evans) the Minister foi 
Lands and Works (Major 1 H Davies) Messrs G W Mahoney and C A\ 1 lost Ms 11 R 
the Bishop of Tasmania (the Kt Rev Dr B S Hav )

 the Pioident of the Legislative Council (Mi 1 Mutdorh) the Speaker of the 
Hnu«e of ?vssemblv (Mr D T O Keefe) the Tendel of the Opposition (Mr H S Bakei) 
the Managing Editor or The Meiruij (Mr Iipd Usher) the presi ^ent of the Hobart 
Chamber of Com moree (Mi A\ r Hinman) represen

 tatives of the churches membeis of the Mite Piillament nldernien and heads 
of 1 edel al depaitments In Hobart

 The Lord Mavor welcoming tedeial MInl"=tois said that Tasmania had re celved 
mote tonsldeiatlon in regard to hei affaits during the term of the pre- sent 
Govelnment than under anv pre

 vious Goveinment One of the States chief difficulties was Its balance of 
trade which was vltilh assnrlated with the tariff It wns often snid that the 
tailft affected each State alike but the dlffl cullies of adjustment were verv 
com ple\ In icgard to the smallei States He thought it was time thev got down to
 something definite instead oT having statements of that kind made Tour veais 
ago with the assistance of o. statistician he had examined the pt ob

 lern very closely, and had found that only one-third of Tasmania's exports 
benefited under the tariff. On the other nandi Du-per cent of the State's 
imports caine from the Mainland, and a large

 proportion of those goods were protect-

 ed.

 It was not very difficult to see that the State was labouring under a con- 
dition in which it was purchasing most of its imports from a sheltered coun- 
try and paying the highest prices for commodities, whereas a large propor- tion 
of its exports was sold in the open market, where the tariff waa not bene- 
ficial. During the past five year« the State's adverse trade balance had been 
more than £1,000,000.

 Training Facilities

 Speaking of defence matters,. Mr. Soundy said that a committee formed at the 
request of the Minister for Ex- ternal Affairs (Mr. Hughes) had been 
functioning for several weeks, and substantial gains had been made In re- gard 
to recruiting for the militia. He could say bluntly, however, that many young 
men did not like the Idea of forming fours and routine drill of that nature. - 
Tasmania had young men of personality and initiative nnd wished to be in "a 
position to train them for useful defence work. The State need- ed a unit of 
the Flying Corps for the training of young pilots. The only ma- chine available 
was nn old Moth which, he was. told, would crash if a power dive were attempted.

 Mr. .Soundy mentioned that during the first week of the recruiting cam- 
paign in Tasmania l-'fi young men had enlisted, and during the second week the 
number was 195. Another S07 were required to make up the State's quota.

 Mr. O'Keefe said that he and Mr. \V. M. Hughes were the only members of the 
Federal Parliament still In active politics. He recalled Mr. Hughes' ac- tivity 
during the tense struggle from which the present tariff of Australia emerged. 
He, hoped that the difflcul I ties of the smaller States would be

 gradually removed.

,  RIDERS ADAMANT IN ATTITUDE ;

 Tho programme hat] been approved by the League ot Tasmanian Wheel- men, said 
Mr. Wright, and entry fees were advertised when the programme «.ns drawn up, so 
that competitors were aware of tho cost. Tho Wheel Rneo waa worth £40, the 
scratch race £20. and the nillo handicap £10, and tho nomination fee for 
the'programme was £1/4/.

 Shortly beforo the timo for tho be- ginning of tho carnival about 30 inter- 
state entrants met outside the ground They claimed that the charge was 
exorbitant, and Bought admission for 10/. Pleadings from officers were ot no 
avail, and 20 minutes after tho ad- vertised starting time the men were

 Informed they could compote for £1,'

 but they were adamant.

 Tho programme was rearranged, nnd practically all of tho-, visiting wheelmen 
left the vicinity. , Instead of each of tho two handicap events being run in 
six hoats, they were limited to two, and 17 Tasmanians took part.

 Explaining tho position over ampli- fiers, the president said the Mainland 
entrants had stated they would not start unless a big reduction In entry feos 
was allowed. "Tasmanian riders paid thoir fees, and we took the stand that 
interstate riders should do the same," he said.

 The names of 40 Mainland cyclists appeared In the programme, but sev- eral 
did not make tho trip to West- bury.

 V. JJ. Redpath, of Sassafras, who won tho Latrobe Wheel Race the previous 
day for the third time, an- nexed the wheel race from scratch from his 
co-marker, E. G. Moore, and Mooro was successful In the scratch race. The gate 
receipts were £53.

 Details:

 Cycling

 Ono Mlle.-Heat 1: T. Brooks. Myrta.. 1; V. Creen. 13yds., 2; H. Brady, 
l.íyds., 3; V. 1J. Redpath, ser.. 4. Other starters: T. Wilson. iMiyds.; M. 
linches, 120yds.; B. S. Blazelv, 12.1yds. Time, 2m. t 3-5». Heat 2: E. Ion. 
aiivds.. t; K. G. Hadley, Sllyds.. 2; O Eade, 123vds., 3; T. H. Saunders. 100 
vds. 4. Other starters: J. Welsh, looyds.: ij. Dunham. J20yds.: E. A. McNamara, 
ISOvds.. 3. Time. 2m. 7s.

 Fluni: V. Green, 1; G. Eade, 2; H. Brady,

 3.

 Ono and a half lengths. 10yds. Time, 2m. ls. '

 Wheel Race, 2 miles.-Heat 1: V. I.. Redpath. ser., 1; E. tl. Moore, ser., 2; 
E. G. Hadley, 160yds., 3; T. Saunders. 2U0yds., 4. Other starters: T. Wilson, 
ISOvrts.: A. Itocklitr. M. Hughes. I,. Dunham, 24t>>ds.; E. A. McNamara, 
2f,0yds. Time, 4m. 35s. Heat 2: T. Ilnnilis, iT.lvds., 1: K. Redpath, 2,ln\ds.. 
2: E. Inn. IMiyils.. .1: .1. Welsh, 20Hyds.. I. lither starters: H. Itradv, V. 
Green, 30yds. Time, lin. ir, 4-5s.

 Final: V. 1>. Redpath, 1; E. G. Moore, 2; J. Welsh, 3. length, 35yd*. Redpath

 mid Mooro Joined the main bunch at four lapp to go.- Time, 4m. 23 2-lis. .. 
..

 Flvc-mlle Scratch rtaco.-E. O. Moore, Ii V. Green, 2¡ V. L. Itedpath, 3; II. 
Brady, 4. 1 welvc started, Lap prizes: Hadley six, Redpath lire, Sniimlers 
three, Brooks and Welsh. Time, Jim.'36 4-5s.

 Chopping

 "N'lne Inch.-Heat 1: G. Burles, 3s" 1; lt. Walker, ser., 2: E. Barrett, 4s" 
3. Other starters: B. Donoghoe, scr.: M. Billard. Is. Time, 23s. Heat 2:-R. 
Ja^o, 2s.. l; P. Dlrkln, ls., 2; W. Frost, ser.,"1 3. Other starters: A. Frost, 
ser.; F. Camp- bell. Is.: C. Healy, 4s. Time, 25s. Heat 3: D. Donohue, ls., 1¡ 
N, stewart, 4s" 2: G. Donald, 5s" 3. Other" starters: A. Lutwyche, 2s.: G. 
Laskey, 3s. ?

 Final: lt. Jago, 1; P. Dlrkln, 2: D. Donohue, 3. Two blows. Time. 21s.

 Ten inch Standing:,-Heat 1: W. Frost, 7s., 1; n. Easton, 2s., 2; lt. Jago, 
3s.7 3. Other starters: P. Dlrkln, scr.; N.J Stew- art, 6s.: G. Donald, 7s. 
Timo,. 31s. Heat 2: D. Donoghue, ls., 1¡ A. Frost, scr., 2: F. Campbell, ls., 
3. Other starters: T. Barrett, ls.. T. Sturzaker, 4s. Time, 27s. Heat 3: M. 
Glllard, 6s., 1; B. Dono- hue, 8s" 2¡ R. Walker, scr., 3. Other starters: G. 
Burles, 9s. Time. 25s.

 Final: D. Donohue, 1; B. Donohue, 2; H. Jago, 3. Blow. Time, 30s.

 Treble

 For R. Clark At Geeveston

 lt. Clark was successful In the three

 principal events at tho carnival conducted by tho Geeveston Amateur Cycle 
Club at the Geeveston oval nu Christmas Day. Clark tied with L. Knight, who 
showed marked Improvement, In the four-lap han- dicap and ceded thc run-off. 
Results:

 Two-lap handlrnp: R. Clark 1, E. Ash- lin 2, L. Knlcht 3.

 Four-lap handicap.-L. Knight and R. Cinik head lieut; E. Ashlin 3.

 Six-lap Continental: lt. Clark 24 points, !.. Knight ll points, T. Shreeves 
1Ü points, Ii\ Ashlin 5 points.

,  ATTITUDE OF HUON COUNCIL

 rPHE Commission comprises Messrs. 1 G. D. Balsille (chairman). B. E.

 Saunders. L. T Barwick and D Mc Lennan. i

 George Courtney Frankcomb, Warden of Huon, said Huon had a population of 
5,300, a Government capital value of £1,041,147 and an annual value of £45,800. 
Rates levied were £6,150, and the annual revenue was £8,000, excluding loans. 
The Council favoured the adoption of a Joint roll for State and municipal 
rates, supported the re- tention of health services, control of court work and 
the existing system of voting. The Council considered that If the services of 
the Crown Law Depart- ment were made available to Councils it would tend 
towards Improved co- operation between local authorities and Government 
departments. He opposed amalgamation in the Huon where there was marked progress
 despite th« depressed state oi the fruit Industry. The Cojncll found difficulty
 In striking annual values of property on 3 per cent of the capital value.

 The Government roll was in a shocking condition. Soma persons whose names 
were on the roll had been dead for 10 years.

 If a joint roll were devised, assess- ments would be simplified,, "During my 
term of 15 years as a councillor, I have found nothing In the Local Government 
Act which tends to hamper the efficiency and smooth working of local govern- 
ment." said witness.

 The chairman: Have you considered a reduction of councillors?

 Witness: We are opposed to it. be- cause we consider It Is a departure from 
the fundamental principles of local government. ., ¡

 Are three members for each ward too many?-No, I find such representa- tion 
in a scattered municipality Is bene- ficial.

 Is there any reason why you should not pool road rates?-Personally, 1 
consider that would be wise.

 What Is your road revenue?-£3,000 on the last assessment.

 How did you purchase your plant?

 From loan funds.

 Are your roads In good order?-Yes. although the Ranelagh and North Huon 
roads, which carry heavy timber traffic, causo concern.

 Is road construction work, for which you obtained £4,000 a year for some 
time, still necessary?-No, hut we have the by-road problem which really

 means reconstruction.

 Have you a timber toll?-No.

 Why?-It Is difficult to Impose The timber carted is mainly case material for 
fruitgrowers.

 Witness said small mills were as- sessed at £50, and large ones at £100.

 The chairman: Is that a blind stab? Witness: It Is what the Council con- 
siders fair.

 Mr. Saunders: Do you consider the assessment of councillors' properties hy 
councillors Is right?

 Witness: Tes.

 The chairman: Do you not think It Is rather Invidious?

 Witness: Not at all.

 Mr. Saunders: We have evidence In- dicating that some counclllbrs over 
assess their properties, and others un der-assess them. ^

 Property Assessment

 Witness: I am perfectly satisfied that Huon councillors can assess pro- 
perties better than any independent valuer. We threw £100 away by employing a 
Government man. When he completed the work the roll waa in a worse state than 
ever.

 He considered orchard properties at Esperance und Cygnet were valued too

 high in view of the position of the In- I

 dustry.

 The chairman: Esperance and Cygnet are slightly below the State average.

 Witness: But no industry has had the setbacks that orcharding has had.

 Who do you suggest should compile the Joint roll?-The Government should 
arrive at the capital values.

 That means ti., duty of valuing would devolve on the State?-Yes. Capital 
values would 1 e put on a proper foot- ing, which Is most desirable.

 So that, although, in your opinion, councillors are competent to assess 
properties, the roll should be devised by the Government?-We ara bound to go by 
the Government capital

 valuation roll.

 Does the Huon Municipal Association deal with local government matters?

 Yes.

 It occurred to me that the forma- tion of these bodies is an indication of a 
realisation of some municipal diffi-

 culties.

 Mr. McLennan: Has your health In spectir full qualifications?

 Witness: No, but he is competent.

 Mr. Barwick: Are you In favour ol centralised health services?

 Witness: No. From what I nave heard about the Government medical schemes at 
Kingborough and Esperance I have no desire to have a Government doctor 
installed In the Huon.

 The chairman: How is the State high- way scheme functioning?

 Witness: Excellently.

 Charles Whlteford Elliston, Huon councillor, said road rates should be 
pooled, and the ward system should be abolished. The even representation was 
Its only strong point. The existing system of plural voting wus Inequitable. 
Voting should be baned on annual values, and In the case of owners and 
occupiers, it should be divided.

 Mr Barwick: Would two members for each ward create more efficiency?

 Witness: No.

 .'John Upchurch, Huon councillor, said ratepayers should be considered before
 any amalgamation was effected.

 Richard Horace Russell Thompson orchardift, said that considering the 
importance, progress, and efficiency of councils In the Huon district, amalgam- 
ation wa« not warranted. Huon coun- cillors were competent and the road 
overseer efficient. There was room foi Improvement in the roll.

 William Robert Yeates, Journalist said he had been reporting council meet- 
ings In the Huon for 20 years "In my opinion," he said, "rating is lax, as there
 is no uniform system. It should be based on the production capacity ol orchard 
, properties. Some orchard* producing 4,000 cases of fruit pay double the rates 
paid by orchards of the same producing capacity. I do not think you could 
amalgamate Huon and Esperance on the score of economy."

 James Hall Mason, orchardlst, ad- vocated the evolution of a system ol 
assessment on the amount of produc-

 tion.

 The chairman: Are you a valuer?

 Witness: No, but 1 take a great In

 tereat In costing.

 Claude Vivian Davey, Huon Counct Clerk, said there were 40 separate ac- 
counts Including six separate vvatei schemes. He had suggested th< grouping of 
some accounts, but th< Audit Department had opposed It.

 The chairman: Could you consolidât« hall and recreation ground rates ef- 
fectively?

 - Witness: From an admlnlstratlor viewpoint It would be advantageous but I 
doubt If it would be fair to th< ratepayers.

 Outstanding rates had been reducec from £1,200 to £700 In two years.

,  COUNCIL'S ATTITUDE TO McELWEE

 jyjlt. MALL'road the minutes of tho

 ; council meeting ut which Mc Klwee's position was discussed after he lind 
given evidence before the Royal Commission, and said lt was apparent that,- if 
the council could have dealt with him for giving evidence, it would have done 
HO.

 Mr. Ockerby said they must be care- ful, Isald Mr. Hall, and Mr. Hrowne thut 
McElwee was not dealt with drastic- ally enough last time. Tl.e council 
realised thut it made a mistuke in V)34 in not giving McElwee a chance ot. say- 
ing something. Why should Mr. Wyett call McElwee In to sec him'.' The posi- 
tion had been considered on February 20, nnd lt has been said that the coun- 
cil had made up its mind that there was only one course to follow, and thal 
McElwee must go. If that is so,.why should Mr. Wyett get Into touch with him? 
The commission will have, to consider the whole position. . You are not bound 
to Bay that, simply because no direct statements have been made, that Mr. Wyett 
knew the commission was sitting, or that McElwee was dis- missed for giving 
evidence before it . that these facts have not been proved.

 McElwee said ho made nu secret of the fact, and some are only too willing to 
go to tho inner circle with the Infor-

 mation. The commission cannot inflict, any penalty, except to report'Its 
find- ings to the proper tiuarlcrs. .

 "That would be on!y one thing to lead to a recommendation for a change in 
ths form of local govern-

 ment." . ...

 He said lie felt that'the provision In the Act stipulating seven members bf 
a'firm before'a man could hold, the position bf alderman referred to public 
companies. The position might .be thought serious enough to recommend a change 
ot-government, or only n

 tightening of the law. The position ns j regarded.the appointment of 
relatives: lo the council seemed to have been rec- tified largely, and thu 
mutters-of the lighting profit transfers, and the reap- pointment of a.night 
watchman ealled for little comment.

 However, the purchase of ^'night's foundry might lead the comm.-fsiun to ' 
consider a change in the form of gov-r ' ernment, or of the law. The purchase

 of this site for tho tramway sheds seemed to have been curried through with 
Indecent haste. It appeared that nt a meeting of the Tramway Commit- tee nn 
alderman mentioned that Knight's foundry was for sale. That alderman happened 
to be nn olllcer em- ployed by the person who held a mort- gage on the, 
property. Only a week elapsed between the time this fact was

 brought up and the decision ofthe com- mittee to spend £4,'i0(l of the 
ratepay- ers' money on acquiring the site. There did not seem to have been an 
nttempt to see another site, except for one at the corner of Bourke, and 
Paterson streets. Afr. Strike had submitted a report, but this could be 
described as negligible.

 As regards the Bourke and Paterson streets site, lt seemed obylpua that an 
alderman had taken advantage ? of knowledge acquired . In the council to get 
the man who Was his partner, but who purported to trade under another name, to 
enter into negotiations for the land. . ? '? \

 Air. Green: Under Instructions from the council. . , , ?

 Air. Hall: 1 say lt was done by the then Alayor.

 Air. Green: You said he used-his knowledge. The matter was done quite 
openly; and not In an underhand way as

 you suggest.

 "End Of Tether"

 ' "Mention has been made of rates which was owing at one stage." said Air. 
AfcElwee. "I had just about reach- ed; the end of my financial tether. Con- 
sequently, I was unable to be represent- ed at this inquiry, much to thc detri- 
ment of my case. My agreement with the council was made by negotiation, and 
surely lt might have been altered by negotiation either with myself or the head 
of ray department? The council's action-towards me ls totally unprece- dented. 
Aluch of my Information re- garding t)ie council was volunteered to me by 
Alderman Bridgborn.' When he comes before this commission, how- ever, he cannot 
remember."

 Referring, to his allegations that he had- seen Aldermen von Bibra, Boat 
wrlsht, and Browne going Into the building where Air. Wyett's office was, lie 
said that lie had no doubt that they hud gone In there. These four men could 
depend on the support of Alder- man Ockerby, which would give them a majority 
In the council. At the time lils position had been abolished and his salary 
reduced. Air. Strike's salary had been- Increased, and no other officer's pay 
hud been reduced. No policy of eco- nomy could be accepted unless lt ap- plied 
to the whole staff.

 ."I' find it difficult to believe that the aldermen were not misled, or neted
 under pressure of some kind," he said. "Thc result of this inquiry is that I am
 more than ever convinced that, had I not- given broadcast speeches, or been 
mixed up with politics, my position would not have been abolished.

 "It ls tile right of every British sub- ject to advocate the views he holds 
to be correct. Therefore. I say that the council penalised nie for taking my 
citi- zen rights, and the rights of another organisation. I claim that 1 was a 
loyal servant of the citizens of Laun- ceston In my long service In the council.
 I claim equally that the aldermen have not been so. I would suggest that con- 
sideration be given by the commission to the possibility of pressure being 
brought to bear on the council."

 ]\JR. SHIELDS explained that he pro-

 posed to deal with three sections of the inquiry. They were the alleged 
attempt to prevent McElwee from giv- ing evidence before the commission, 
McElwee's dismissal, and the purchase of Knight's foundry for the tramway

 depot.

 He pointed out that, if the allegation of an attempt to prevent McElwee giv- 
ing evidence were established, it would be a very serious matter, but taking 
the evidence and the explanations of- fered, the commission could only come to 
the conclusion that the charge was not well founded. It was the general 
impression throughout Tasmania that the commission was set up td inquire Into 
local government, particularly as to-any amalgamations that might be possible, 
and as to any reduction of overhead expenses, but he did not think aldermen had 
any idea that the commission intended to inquire into the affairs of the 
Launceston City Council, or ot the Hobart City Coun- cil. There was no doubt 
that on tho Monday before McElwee gave his evi- dence his position as an 
officer of the council was under consideration by the corporation.

 VI submit with confidence that you can accept the sworn evidence of Al- 
derman A. E. "Wj-ett, and -the other aldermen who appeared hore, that they had 
no knowledge that this Royal Commission was taking ' evidence In Launceston on 
that Friday morning McElwee appeared before, it," Mr. Shields continued. 
"Before you can say that even- Mr. Wyott or tho coun- cil attempted to do 
anything to pre- vent McElwee giving' evidence you have got to have more than 
mere sus- picion. -You have got to have it estab- lished almost to a degree of 
certainty."

 "Was Unbalanced"

 Mr, Shields contended that from 1934 on, as far as the abolition of his 
position waa concerned, McElwee was unbalanced. The whole thing had be- come 
such an obsession with him that it overshadowed his reason. "I submit that as 
far as this first charge is con-

 cerned." hn added, "there ls nothlnir tc

 support'it, and. no evidence that would justify you in coming to the 
conclusion "that Mr. Wyelt or any other alderman had been.Milty ot such a 
serious and grave offence us this."

 Dealing with the question of McEl-. wee's dismissal this year, Mr. Shields 
said that; if McElwee were victimised by. being summarily dismissed because 
of'the evidence he gave to the commis- sion, it would be a serious matter as far
 as: the corporation was concerned. The question which the-commission had to 
consider was whether or not McElwee was dismissed because lie gave that

 evidence.

 Mr. Shields reviewed the evidence on this point In detail. He said that in 
,1934 seven out of hine aldermen agreed lo the abolition of McElwee's position, 
and the other two objected to the method of procedure. "What was it that caused 
seven aldermen to agree ; that the office should be abolished?" asked Mr. 
Shields. "Why has not tho same thing occurred to some other officer ot the 
corporation? Why should lt happen to McElwee and to no one else? In that regard 
thc evidence given this morning by Mr. Green is most im- portant. . lt shows 
the state of affuirs existing ns far as McElwee was con- cerned as far back as 
seven years prior to the aboiltlon of his office. I am go- ing to tell you why 
that office was abol- ished. McElwee, for some time prior to 1934, had created 
a situa- tion that made lt impossible for him to continue In his then position. 
It I may venture to say so, if the aldermen made a mistake in 1934, it was not 
in abolishing tho posi- tion, but in not dismissing McElwee from the service. 
Obviously, thc posi- tion could arise that a man might be entirely satisfactory 
on the technical side, but ns far as his general behaviour and demeanour were 
concerned, he could bc such a nuisance that ulti- mately lt would lead to his 
dismissal. That I submit is what happened here."

 j Remained Employee

 If charges had been brought against McElwee, the¿ difficulty would have been 
to'obtain'witnesses to come for- ward, despite the frequent complaints which 
were pouring ,in. In 1934, seven of the nine aldermen - voted for the abolition 
of McElwee's position, and the other two disagreed only on the procedure 
adopted. Yet between 1934 and 1938, at least one ot those aldermen did all he 
could to have McElwee rein- stated and, when the higher position became vacant, 
the voting was only five to four In favour of McElwee. This did not indicate 
continued animosity towards McElwee.

 "Where charges are being mado against a man," he said, "I agree that the. 
accusers should be brought before thc accused to make their allegations.) Hut 
not in all cases. And this was one of those. There are cases which crop up and 
must crop up where It is absolutely imperative that the individ- ual must go. A 
man may create a position which makes lt imposible for him to continue in 
employment, especi- ally in the case of councils where al- dermen or 
councillors are answerable to ratepayers.

 "McElwee became obsessed with the injustice he considered he had suffer- ed, 
and lost all sense of balance. After his. position had been abolished, he made 
a statement at a public meeting that one alderman, was a coward, who shot from 
behind a hedge, and was one man on Sundays and something differ- ent on week 
davs. iinw iT» >i-m,u

 you, Mr. Chairman, retain an employee In your department If you had had a 
dispute, and he went away and said something similar? Yet McElwee stays In the 
employ of the council for five

 years after this.

 "I have lost much respect for the aldermen since I have heard' these things 
brought before the commission to think that they have put up with the position. 
How many people would have tolerated it? How can anything work 'without some 
loyalty? Some- times you get to a position where either, the employer' or 
employee must go, and the employee always mud, for the employer cannot.

 "On this particular question Mc- Elwee. waj. not sane. This ls a common 
experience. In the end every alderman turned against him. Is not that sig-

 nificant?" .

 Mr. Shields said he would not attempt - to argue whether the' letter to the 
Masonic Lodge should have been brought.before the council, but once it was put 
before lt, aldermen had no option but to take action. McElwee said he signed 
the apology, knowing it to be wrong, but because he was afraid of losing his 
Job. Yet he re- mained in the employment of the council another year before the 
matter was brought up again, when a letter was written to the Masonic fraternity
 alleging that a conspiracy had been hatched by Bro.. Wyctt In the presence ot 
Messrs. Browne, Boatwrlght, and

 von Bibra,

 .'The truth ls that, when McElwee signed that apology, he meant lt," con- 
tinued. Mr. Shields, "but the festering Bore was there, and came to the sur 
Tace again. He was still In the employ ot nw council when he gave evidence 
before the Boyal Commission. He did not hand in his resignation before, and say 
he was going to say what be had been afraid to cay for four years.

 No Haste

 Mr. Shields said he was astounded when Mr. Hall had referred to undue haste 
in the purchasi ot Knight's foundry for the new tramway sheds. Mr. Strike had 
stated that there was no other site suitable on the trams routes. The truth was 
that the coun- cil realised that thc sooner it closed with the deal the better.

 "Is my friend suggesting that there was some rake-off to be divided by all 
the council?" he said. "Is there some- thing wrong or sinister with the trans- 
action? Why did not my friend have the courage to come out into thc open with 
his allegation? Would nine alder- men sit round a table and plan a rake-off of 
that nature?"

 Mr. Hall: It never entered my mind. Mr. Shields: The Implication against the 
late Mr. George Shields in this matter was an absolute slander against the 
memory of a dead man, anil was calculated to bring other aldermen Into 
disrepute. Only one Interpretation could be placed on the insinuations.

 Mr. Hall: Who made the Insinua- tions?

 Mr. Shields: You did. The chair

 (Continued in Next Column)

 (Continued from Preceding Column)

 man agreed with me that such an Im- plication was Inferred.

 Collection Of 'Accounts

 Mr. Green dealt with the associa- tion of the former Mayor (Mr. A. E. Wyett) 
with the collection of muni- cipal accounts .byr.Tasmanian Collec- tion 
Service: (Launceston) Pty. Ltd. He pointed out that' Mr. Wyett, although he had 
oi>ly half done the Job of resigning as a director of this com- pany, had 
continued In good faith, and lt was only when he received a sub- poena to 
attend the commission that he found out he had forgotten to carry .out his 
intention of resigning, ; It was

 then he resigned.

 A« far as Alderman E. Boatwrlgl'.t's association with the Kingswear Manu- 
facturing Co. Pty. Ltd. was concerned. Mr. Green contended his position had 
never been doubtful, as far ns the law stood. Once Mr. Boatwright hail re- 
signed as a director, the company would have been quite within its rights and 
within the law in contracting with the council. Mr: Green contended also that 
there had been nothing irregular In the way In which the City Council had 
purchased land at the corner of

 Bourke and Paterson streets.

 The chairman eaid the Inquiry was concluded as far as the Launceston City 
Council was concerned.

,  India Congress

 Attitude

 ALLAHABAD, October 1. ;

 Pandit Nehru, president ot the All India Congress,, told the University 
Union that If the speech In the House of Lords on-Tuesday by the Secretary 
lorMndla (Lord Zetland) represented the mind . of the British Government and 
people, there could be no , com- promise between the AU-Indla Con- gress and 
Britain, "now or 1,000 years hence.".

 A resolution adopted recently by the Congress said indian sympathy was 
entirely on the side of democracy and freedom, but it could not associate 
itself with the present war while free- dom was denied India.

 When Mahatma Gandhi, former Con- gress leader, and Jinnah, of the Con- gress 
executive, conferred at Simla with the "Viceroy (the Marquess of Linlith- gow) 
this week. It was believed that they discussed Britain's war aims and future 
attitude to India.

,  j CABINET'S ATTITUDE j

 1 Consideration In Few j

 ! Weeks

 rj^HE Premier (Mr. E. Dwyer- i

 Gray) said yesterday that ! lt probably would be a couple j of weeks before 
Cabinet would j be In a position to give con- j ajderation to the report of the 
j Royal Commission on Local j Government. Many pointa of | the greatest 
importance and j interest had beon raised. j

 The Premier added that he | was particularly interested in j the suggestion 
that plural vot- ! ing should bo abolished. In i

 New Zealand all local bodies j were elected on an adult fran- I

 chlse, while the ratepayers j only voted as such when it was [ necessary to 
take a. poll on tho I raising of loan moneys. |

,  j MUNICIPAL REFORM ]

 ¡ Parliamentary Labour ! j Party's Attitude j

 J rFHE State Parliamentary . ll

 I Labour Party yesterday ' I discussed the course to be fol- ¡ . lowed by 
the Government in | ! regard to municipal reform. I I lt was decided that the 
Govern- J I ment should frame a bill em- J

 . bodying all the recommends- a { tiona of the Royal Commission i J on Local 
Government. The I I party will, review the pro- } I visional bili, .and will 
decide ¡ I any deletions or additions. I ! As it is "considered that the ? I 
bill will take at least three J I months to prepare, th« special j . session of 
Parliament will not ' , ! be held until the end of March i I or early in April. 
. ?

,  FOREIGN MIGRANTS i

 Attitude Of Victoria

 League

 The Victoria League in Tasmania has advised.the league headquarters in 
London that it. will welcome foreign migrants provided their credentials nre in 
order. .This was .announced . at a meeting of, the Tasmanian organisa- tion at 
Hobart yesterday, when Lady Clark presided.

 The secretary (Hrs. C D. Cuthbert) reported that Tasmania's attitude to 
foreign migrants had been outlined In a letter to headquarters in reply to a 
question for Information on the sub- ject. The league's first task, she said, 
was to strengthen the ties that bound Tasmania to the Motherland, but it was 
realised that as a result of in- creased employment in armament pro-; ductlön . 
In ' Great Britain there was little likelihood of a resumption of British 
migration to Australia until world'sanity was restored.

 Mrs. Cuthbert also referred to the move to establish branches of the league 
in British possessions in the Pacific, to the holding of the flrst of a series 
of social gatherings under

 leugne uusplces iii Hobart, as well as

 to other gatherings atwhich visitors to Hobart had been welcomed. The 
udvantage gained by Tasmanian stud-, ents overseas hi linking up with the 
leugne was stressed. The school cor- respondence súbeme continued one of the 
league's most important activities, and In this connection appreciation to the 
THO inul. îllï studio managements was expresseil. The branch was join- ing with 
others throughput the Bm pire In -sending greetings to Lady Jer- sey un the 
occasion of her 90th birth- day.

 M ISM Sheila Parsons, for the league's Voling Contingent, reported that par- 
cels of books had been sent to bush nui'sing centres and to King Island and 30 
State schools. .

 The secretary for schools correspon- dence (Miss Mary Watchorn) reported 
(hat an average of 50 letters a month had been sent out and that stamp.col- 
lecting, wlth a.view to knowledge of the llmpire,, was being encouraged.

 y COUNTRY BRANCHES '

 The Devonport branch reported that members had visited district schools on 
Umpire Oliy, and lind .presented books to the Devonport school library and to 
the Currie .lighthouse. , ^Shetlield. re- ported similar Empire Day 
activity,'and assistance to the lied Cross Society, and vnrluus'' 
philanthropic' bodies. The Bridgewater report told, of. a »visit by Lady Clark. 
: The Glenorchy - Moo- nah branch reported that school prizes had been given 
for essays on the life

 of .Mr.-.!. Â. Lyons, and) donations had

 been,made :tq the" Lyons Bursnry Memorial Fund. ". ?">. V -

 Graphic accounts were given hy Miss Travers anet Sister Dorothy Low, ot ex- 
periences overseas, Sister Low referring to. nurslng'.ndventures during the 
civil

 war.In Spain. .

 The treasurer reported that Income for the finnnclal year was £47, plus £27 
brought forward, and expenditure £39.

,  SUPPORT GIVEN ,

 Commissions Attitude

 To Competitions

 The last two concerts of the Laun- ceston competitions are broadcast, and 
the Australian Broadcasting Commis- sion pays a substantial fee for the right, 
said Mr. C. C. Wicks, Tasmanian man- ager of the commission at Hobart, yes- 
terday. He was commenting on state- ments at the annual meeting of the 
.Launceston Competitions Association

 in which the hope was expressed that the commission would give more sup- 
port to the association, and In which it was suggested that Tasmanian per- 
formers should have more opportunity to broadcast.

 Mr. Wicks said the commission gave many opportunities to Launceston per- 
formers, and Launceston was treated better in that respect than any other, city 
of similar size. At the same time, the commission had to give balanced 
entertainment, and representations had been made for the transmission to Tas- 
mania of more Items on Mainland national programmes. In the circum- stances, 
the commission did its best for Launceston, and lt felt it could not use 
Launceston performers to any greater, extent, because, with the exception of 
the Railway Silver Band, most of those available were vocalists, and , that 
narowed the scope.

,  AMALGAMATION

 OPPOSED

 Attitude Of Waratah

 After giving consideration to the proposed amalgamation of municipali- ties, 
the Waratah Municipal Council unanimously agreed to the following

 motion:

 "As the conditions and needs pecu- liar to the district have been well 
served by the present form of local control for the past 30 years, the Council 
strongly objects to the pro- posal to attach Waratah to Table Cape or any other 
municipality, un- less It can be clearly shown that services at least equal to 
the present services can be provided without any increase in rates.

 "This Council is of opinion that. If the Public Works Department and other 
central departments appointed more professional inspectors, and provided more 
rigid supervision, in a similar manner to the Audit Depart- ment, a minimum 
standard of effi- ciency to suit the variety of condi- tions and needs of the 
municipalities could be attained."

 It wae decided to hold a special meeting of the Council to prepare evi- 
dence for submission to the Royal Commission on Local Government

 Opposition At Rou

 At a special meeting of the Ross Council those present were: The War- den 
(Mr. H. Gillett), Councillors D. D von Bibra, F. Dowling, D. A. Cameron, A. 
Dowling, A McEwan, G. H. Keach, and A. H. Bennett. The Warden wel- comed the 
newly-appointed councillor (Mr. A. H. Bennett) The meeting was to formulate 
evidence to be given on behaif of the Council before the Royal Commission on 
Local Govern- ment,

 It was resolved that the Council was opposed to amalgamation with any 
council.

 It was decided that the following form a committee to deal with the evi- 
dence: The Warden, Councillors D. A. Cameron. A McEwan. and F Dowl- ing.

,  AMALGAMATION

 OPPOSED

 Zeehan Commission's ! Attitude

 Electricity Service

 At a meeting of the Zeehan Muni- cipal Commission, the following motion was 
agreed to:

 This Commission Is opposed to the suggestion that this municipality he 
amalgamated with the Queenstown Municipality.

 It was decided to prepare evidence lti support of the motion to submit to 
the Royal Commission on Lucal Go-

 vernment.

 . The main objection to the amalgama- tion was because of the special condi- 
tions which obtained in the Zeehan Municipality, and its geographical position.

 ...There, were present: Mes.srs.~A. T. W. McGuinness (chalrm.in)i J. H. S. 
Munro, A. J. Mcllvennan, N. V. Menzie nnd the Council Clerk (Mr. J. R. 
Falconer).

 In reply to the Commission's com- plaint to the Hydro-Electric Commis- sion 
of frequent interruptions in the power service In the district, the Hydro 
Electric Commission advised that no reasonable effort would be spared to give 
the best service possible under the exceptional conditions which ap- plied to 
the West Coast.

 The Under Secretary advised that Friday, February 3, 1030, had been ap- 
pointed a bank holiday (whole day) tor the Municipality of Zeehan on the 
occasion of the annual sports meeting at Rosebery.

 Application was made by Messrs. Morrison and Buwle, proprietors of Rosebery 
Pictures, for permission to screen pictures after church hours on Sunday 
evenings In the Broadway Theatre. Rosebery. The Commission decided to refuse 
the application.

 FINANCIAL POSITION

 A stnt^ement of balances of municipal

 accounts at December 31 showed a credit of £2,352 over all accounts. The 
accounts In credit were: General, £156;East Ward Rd., £63¡West Ward Rd., £101; 
Montagu Ward Rd., £600: Loan Rate, £90; Health, £3.13; Elec- tric Light 
Maintenance, £9; Cleansing, £554; Abattoirs, £1; Cemetery, £19; Street 
Lighting, £616; Deposit, £20; Reserves, £210; Rate Suspense, £65. The only 
account in debit was the Government Works Wages Advance.

 Dr. J. A. Ollphnnt wns appointed health officer in place of Dr. R. H. Oxby 
Donald, who has left Tasmania.

 The tender of Mr. C. Ward, Zeehan, was accepted for a cottage in Main St., 
Zeehan.

 It was resolved that, where neces- sary, persons owning property front- ing 
on Main St., Zeehan, be given no- tice to erect fences.

 It was reported that there had been no cases of infectious disease during 
December.

 It was decided to hold the next meet- ing on February 2.

,  CURTAILMENT OF

 LOANS

 Treasurer's Attitude

 rteterrlng to tho rtnnnunconiènl from Canberra, that parin«: of loans for 
State public' works dining J 1)40-1 wa» con- templated, the Treasurer (Mr. 
Pivyer Ora.v) said yesterday no reasonable person could object to some 
curtailment In that class of expenditure, because ot tho enormous amount nt 
money which would be spent on defence works in Australia dur'ng that period, lt 
totalled £:tfi,221,000 tor 19.19-40, and would be more In 1940-1.

 An exception, however, must ho made In tho case ot Tasmania, where this 
year's expenditure on defence works totalled only £2.fi2f> n head of the popu- 
lation, against £10.057 In Victoria. That was the per capita relation ot 
£480,000 lo £18.717,000. He would he able to show, nt tho next Loan Council 
meeting, that Tasmania would ho financially and economically better off If 
there wero no defence expenditure.

 At tho Loan Council there was il good deni of sympathy with tho exceptional 
position of Tasmania, He would he able to show that 1940-1 was likely to be a 
critical financial year for this Slntc. That was probable because the trans- 
port position would adversely affect next year's budget, whereas during tho 
necessary transition period this year the transport position lind favoured lt; 
and because the huge Now South Wales deficit might seriously affect next year's 
special grunt.

 Another factor might bring about a revolutionary change in Australian 
financial policy. South Australia (U.A.P. Government), Tasmania (Lab- our), and 
West Australia (Labour) had agreed, through resolutions passed by their Houses 
of .Assembly, lo support largo extensions of national credit, lt the Queensland 
Assembly, or tho Labour Government In that Stnte made a similar public 
pronouncement, thc position in regard to the next Lonn Council would begin to 
look healthy.

 He believed not even the expenses ot tho war could be financed without ruin- 
ing Australia except by a largo utilisa- tion of community credit, and n conse- 
quential partial or complete elimination ot Interest, either expressly, or 
through itu payment to tho Commonwealth Hank only, which would return the 
Interest paid, through Its prouts, for the services o: tho people

,  ATTITUDE TO SEIZURE OF MEMEL

 rPHE Parliamentary Under-secretary

 for Foreign Affairs (Mr. Butler) told the House ot Commons that the 
Government had now been informed officially by the Lithuanian Government of the 
cession of Memel to Germany. On receiving the communication, the British 
Government had expressed to the Lithuanian Government its sympa- thy In the 
situation In which the lat- ter had been plnccd.

 Mr. Butler added that as both last December and on March 16, the British 
Government had made lt clear, In re- plies to Inquiries addressed to lt as a 
signatory of the Memel Convention by the Lithuanian Government, that lt could 
only endeavour to secure respect for the Memel Statute in so far as that lay in 
Its power. It was understandable, in the circumstances, that the Lithuan- ian 
Government had signed a treaty with Germany without consulting sig- natory 
Powers.

 Mr. Butler said Britain had not protested against German aggression

 in Memel.

 Asked what alterations were contem- plated In the defence arrangements re- 
cently announced in view of the change In the International situation, the Prime
 Minister said he had no statement to make at present. He recalled that he had 
already announced that the whole of the circumstances were again under 
consideration.

 No Retributive Measures

 Mr. Butler told Commander Fletcher (Lah.) that a review of policy necessi- 
tated by recent changes In the inter- national situation would not Involve 
economic measures of a retributive character against Germany.

 A hill to give the necessary powers to banks to carry out instructions for 
the blocking of Czech assets In Lon- don, given by the Treasury after tho 
German annexation ot Czechoslovakia, was passed by thc House of Lords yes- 
terday.

 The Government Spokesman said the Dominions Governments and tho Go- vernment 
of India had been informed ot the action taken, but he could not say whether 
any of them:proposed to take similar action. The French Govern- ment, he 
understood, had acted In the same way ns the British Government.

 He could not Indicate steps the Government might have to take to pro- tect 
British interests In Czechoslovakia. The attitude of the German Govern- ment on 
Czechoslovakia's external obligations was not yet known. They must walt until 
the situation was much cleared before formulating a policy. The present measure 
was only intended to safeguard the position in the meantime.

 Lord Strabolgl (Lab.) Bald it was the Government's duty to take economic 
reprisals against Germany, whose eco- nomic situation was vulnerable. A policy 
of pinprick« was useless. The Government should make a statement on its trade 
policy towards Germany at the earliest possible moment.

 Viscount Gort, Chief ot the Imperial General Stnff, is spending a few days in
 France at the Invitation ot General Oamelln, Chief of French National Do 
fenrr. He will see exercises by troops, and will visit fortifications on the 
Magi- not Line, He will be accompanied by Major-General H. R. Pownall, Director 
ot Military Operations and Intelligence, and other staff officers.

 New Lithuanian Cabinet

 "The Times" correspondent at War- saw says the Mironas Government In 
Lithuania has resigned. M. Rashtikls declined to form a new Cabinet, General 
Tschenius, Chief of the General Staff, accepted. He will form a Ministry on a 
non-party and national basis, includ- ing members of the Opposition.

 KOVNC), Mareil 2S.

 M. Rashtikis broadcast an appeal for contributions io the national arms 
fund, which he »aid was not directed ? gainst any country, line* Lithuania

 would fight only in defence of lier Independence. Ho added that tho ' task 
of tho now Government was to

 organise national unity,

 ZAGREB, March 28.

 Despite warnings by Croatian auto- nomist leaders, who have been seeking 
German support for a home rule cam- paign within Yugoslavia, nnli-ttermnn 
demonstrations, in which the formerly pro-German Croatian Peasant Gunrds are 
joining, are increasing In virulence throughout Croatia. Yugoslav Union- ists 
and Government Sokols, who form- erly were closed allied with the Czech Sokols, 
also are becoming increasingly

 anti-German.

 BERLIN*, March 28.

 A Yugoslav delegation will arrive in Berlin during the week-end to dlscuBS 
an increase In trade between Germany

 and Yugoslavia.

 It is understood that Prince Paul, Chief Regent of Yugoslavia, will leave , 
for Munich shortly to see his sister^ ¡in-law. Countess Toerlng. He may

 confer with a Government representa-

 tive.

 PARIS. March 28.

 The French Cabinet congratulated the President (M. Lebrun) on having, vis- 
ibly strengthened Anglo-French ties and friendship.

 lt decided on new decrees relating to frontier defences, increasing th« 
-navy's effectiveness, and industrial

 expansion.

 The Foreign Minister (M. Bonnet) made a long statement regarding the London 
conversations.

,  IMMUNISATION

 MEASURES

 Deloraine Council's

 Attitude

 I Heated Exchanges

 Heated exchanges between the War-

 den (Mr. Bl T. Hingston) and Council-

 lor J. N. Griffin regarding the Intro- duction In Deloraine of voluntary 
Immunisation against diphtheria led to an unusual situation at the meet- ing1 
of the Deloraine Council yesterday. A.rriotlon; to invite a medical officer to 
attend the next meeting was lost on a division. Although a councillor later 
said that he had misunderstood the motion, the Warden refused to re- submit 
lt.' -' '

 Those present were the Warden (Mr. E. M. Hingston), '. Councillors J. D.' 
Peters, H. E. Gilbert, E. P. Byard, W. A. Oliver, A. A. Scott, P. H. Everett, 
A. R. Symons, D, K. O'Meara, F. C. Cox, I. M. Walker, J. N. Griffin, and the 
Council Clerk (Mr. P. J. Fleming).

 A letter was received from the coun- cil's medical officer (Dr. J. R. Robert-
 son), in which he offered to Inoculate the children pf the municipality at a

 charge of £1/11/6 an hour. I

 The Warden said that as the council would have to finance the undertaking lt 
should not rush Into the scheme.

 Councillor Oriffln: The Public Health 1 Department ls sponsoring lt. ""

 The Warden: But not supplying the

 money. We should let lt stand over, j

 Councillor Griffin: That ls only shelving lt. We are laymen, and must be 
guided by the Public Health De-

 partment.

 Not Compulsory

 Councillor Peters said that the un- satisfactory feature was that the. Im- 
munisation was not compulsory.

 "If you, from the chair," said Coun- cillor Griffin, addressing the Warden, 
I "are going to suggest that expense ls going to stand In the way of lives-"

 I The Warden: No. one said anything

 Uko that

 Councillor Griffin: Our health rate ls eaten up largely in the treatment of

 diphtheria cases. If this expense is i to bè èllminated, lt will be one of 
the ¡best Investments In the world. ' Will

 the Warden agree to the health officer being Invited to discuss the matter 
with the council?

 i The Warden: I do not think lt is j

 necessary.

 Councillor, Griffin: Of course not. I He may convince you.

 The Warden: You have .to action I commonsense lines. . This sentimental talk 
about diphtheria and what lt will save is all right, but the project

 has to be financed.

 Councillor Griffin moved:

 That the medical officer be asked to meet tile council.

 Councillor Peters seconded, but the motion was lost on the following divis- 
ion: ' . .

 Ayes: Councillors Griffin, Walker,, Cox, Peters, Gilbert, and O'Meara. , i

 Noes: The Warden and Councillors Byard, Oliver, Scott, Everett, and

 Symons.

 Councillors "In Dark"

 Councillor Griffin later moved that the motion be resubmitted, as everyone 
had been "In the dark" as to what had

 been decided.

 Councillor Scott said that ho had voted against the motion under a mis- 
apprehension, aB they had thought that the medical officer was to have been 
invited that day, Instead of the next meeting.- -,

 "I object to tho motion being resub- mitted," Bald Councillor Oliver. "Coun- 
cillor Griffin has, been fairly beaten, and I do not think he was fair with the 
"Warden."

 The Warden upheld the objection, and the motion was not resubmitted.

 Advice was received that the work of widening the Deloraine Bridge would 
begin In January, 1940.

 Mr. G. G. Becker, M.H.A., advised that he had taken the matter up with the 
Minister for Lands and Works (Major T. H. Davies) about two years ago. He had 
suggested that the pre- sent footpath be Incorporated in tho roadway and that a 
footpath be con- structed lower on the stone piers.

,  FOUR BOUNDARY

 UMPIRES

 Northern Association

 Attitude

 The Northern Tasmanian Football As- sociation decided at a meeting- last 
night to continue using four boundary umpires unless the Australian Football 
Council ruled otherwise. The association decided to seek the opinion of the 
council. Those present were Messrs. E. C. Robertson (chairman), A. J. McKenzie, 
and G. Miller (Independent delegates), H. Cameron (City), A. D. Freeland 
(Launceston), L. C. Barlow (North Launceston) and G. Burk (Longford).

 The association received a letter from the Tasmanian Australian National 
Foot- ball League directing attention to rule 53. stating that two boundary 
umpires should bo appointed for each match.

 "The association did appoint two offi- cers," said Mr. Robertson, "and then 
went two better in the Interests of the game."

 The secretary (Mr. W. R. Young) said the association could make the position 
farcical by following the rules to the let- ter. Rule 62 provided that when a 
match was played without boundary umpires the central umpire should carry out 
the du-

 ties.

 "The league has known all along that we have been using four boundary um- 
pires this season," said Mr. Burk. "No complaint was made until Just before the 
North v. South match at Launceston. Thc league evidently thinks the game will be
 too fast at York Park."

 "The league would not have worried lt we had had a dozen boundary umpires for
 our roster games," said Mr. Cameron. "They think the big ground at York"Park 
will make lt hard for them. That ls be- hind lt. Rule 53 ls not mandatory 
because under another rule we are at liberty to appoint only à central umpire 
and no boundary umpires."

 "My club ls prepared to stand by the association to the limit to retain four 
um- pires," said Mr. Burk.

 It was decided to write through the league to the Australian Football Council
 directing attention to Rules 52 and 53, and asking for the council's comment on
 tho league'B contention.

 COMBINED MATCH

 The Richmond (V.) Club, which will play a Northern Tasmanian combined team on
 Monday, July 24, wrote asking fôr 60 per cent of the net gate receipts. It was 
de- cided to ofter Richmond 50 per cent. The Northern team will be chosen next 
week-

 end.

 The Tasmanian League directed atten- tion to the fact that the Northern team 
was 4J minutes late on the field for the North v. South match at Hobart, and 
five minutes late at half-time.

 The chairman said the difficulty was that Northern teams wêre used to warn- 
ing bells In the dressing rooms.

 It was decided to advise the league that the absence of the bells accounted 
for the delay In the Northern team going on to the field, and that efforts 
would be made to avoid delays In future.

 lt was decided to arrange a match between a Fingal Association and North 
Eastern Association combined team and the North-Eastern Union as a curtain 
raiser to the North v. South match at Launceston on August 12. lt was proposed 
also to arrange a match between the Mid- lands and Esk associations on tho morn-
 ing of the North v. South match.

 The charge against W. Gurr, of Laun- ceston, of having disputed tho decisions
 of tho umpire (J. T. Mclnnerney) at York Park on Saturday will be dealt with 
to- morrow evening by the Investigation Com- mittee comprising Messrs. 
Robertson,

 McKenzie, and Miller.

,  SATURDAY

 CLOSING

 Attitude Of Producers

 Although several members spoke in opposition to Saturday morning closing, 
the Tasmanian Farmers, Stockowners, and Orchardists' Association,-at its annual 
meeting at Launceston yester- day, decided to leave the matter to its 
legislative committee. ..

 The question was discussed on the re-

 ception ot a letter from the Launceston Retail Traders' Association asking 
members to use their Influence to re- tain Saturday morning shopping facili-

 ties.

 Mr. C. F. Parsons said, if applied to shops only, it would bc nil right, but 
with auctioneers: and machinery agents closed on Saturday morning, lt often 
means a serious Interruption of the work of a farmer. . If a machine broke down 
late on a Friday, it was difficult to obtain replacements before the fol- 
lowing Tuesday.

 Mr. R. O. Shoobridge said he was op- posed to Saturday morning closing. It 
sometimes was possible to obtain ma- chinery parts "under the lap" on Satur- 
days, but they did not want to have to do that.

 Mr. R. 13. Alhvrlght said they would have to go carefully, as the policy 
throughout Australia was for a shorter working week.

 It was decided, on. the motion of Mr. Parsons, to ask the Department of Agri-
 culture not to relax thetregulations re- garding the sale of sheep infected 
with ticks in publie saleyards.

 Hobart was selected as the venue of tho conference next year.

 Opinion In North-West

 Opposition to Saturday morning clos- ing on tho North-West Coast was ex- 
pressed by traders' representatives at Burnie, Ulverstone, and Devonport on 
Wednesday, when they met the Chief Secretary (Mr. E. Brooker) to discuss tho 
Government's proposals.

 A statement In the Press said to have been made at a meeting of the Launces- 
ton Chamber of Commerce, that the Government intended to foist Saturday morning 
closing on the community against its will was incorrect, said' Mr. Brooker, at 
a meeting at Devonport.

 At Burnie Mr. Brooker met représen- tatives of the retail section of the' Bur
 nle Chamber ot Commerce, and the Wynyard Retail Traders' Association, also 
representatives ot the employees.

 Petitions from employees, one bearing about IOU signatures in favour of 
Saturday morning closing, and an- other containing 51 names against lt, were 
tabled.

 Following a meeting with Ulverstone traders the Minister said it appeared 
the general opinion of traders that there should be a revision of the Shops Act,
 but there was a division of opinion re- garding Saturday closing.

 At Devonport Mr. Brooker met members of the Devonport Trad- ers' 
Association, tho Merchants' Export Association, and representatives of the 
Latrobe and Shellleld business houses.

 A representative ot the produce merchants complained of the action of Hie 
Country Shops Wages Board mak- ing an award stipulating that employees ot 
merchants had to work the hours specified'for shop assistants. The hours were 
not suitable.

 Mr. Brooker said he'hgrcod with tho argument and would go into the mat- ter.

 Greater Contentment

 "Commercialism ls HOI the end ot all things; lt is only a means to nu end." 
said tho Chief Secretary (Mr. E. Brook- er) in .Tn address to the Launceston 
5(1,000 League executive at Launceston yesterday, In reference to Saturday 
morning closing ot businesses. The chairman (.Mr. W. O. Curtis), who pre- 
sided, welcomed the Chief Secretary.

 "The end of commql-elnllsm is, the contentment and happiness of the people," 
he said. "We should seek to extend Hint happiness; and we can give our 
people-the ma'n on the land ns well ns the man In the city-greater contentment. 
Conditions today are wonderful compared with those 100 years ago, but this ls 
not the end."

 Diverse Views

 The Chid Secretary (Mr. E. Brook- er) met representatives of business In- 
terests nt Launceston last night, and discussed the Shops Act and Saturday 
morning closing. At the meeting also were representatives of the Employees' 
Improvement Association, and consum- ers. Those who spoke against Satur- day 
closing were tho representatives of the Retail Traders' Association, Jewel- 
lers, master builders, booksellers, Chamber of Commerce, master butch- ers, 
Tasmanian merchants, Deloraine traders, chemists, small shops, exempt shops, 
and country butchers. Those in favour were the Female Employees' Protection 
League, Employees' im- provement Association, and fuel merch- ants, provided 
legislation were passed to protect them from unfair competi- tion.

 Mr. Brooker said it had been decided unanimously Hint tho agreement come to 
previously between the grocers and Small Shops Association that licences should 
be restricted to " genuine small shops and thus eliminate unfair compe- tition 
should he Included In the Act.

 On the question of Saturday closing there was a difference of opinion.

,  BOTH PARTIES ADHERE TO ATTITUDE

 "POPES weie entertained that a com

 piomise might be, effected In re- gal ii to the engagement of i fireman to 
complete the boiler-room crew, but the Hobart Branch of the Seumen's Union 
would not depart, from its alti- tude in demanding that the man con- cerned 
bhould be engaged. Huddurt, Parker Ltd.. on the other hand, re- futed to engage 
the man, und,the dead-

 lock continued. . <

 Though no official statement wns made tegarding the shipping com- pany's 
objection to the engagement uf tile Hieman," It is common knowledge that an 
incident which occur led aboard the Zealandia ,some time ¡igo. when an 
englneer'vvns assaulted, was fcubs-eijuentlv discussed by the , en-, glneers' 
organisation, which decided that the hhip should not be taken- lo sea If the 
man to whom objection waa taken vveie a member pf the crew, As regal di the 
man's work in the stoke- hold, there It no pause for complaint.

 The possibility of the dispute ex- tending was mentioned In waterfiont 
finies veslTday. but there were,'no definite developments, so far as could be 
ascertained. . ' i

 Principle Involved

 Sir John Evans, managet of-the Hobint blanch office ol Huddart; Paiker Ltd., 
stated yesteniny thal-uve position wai, unchanged.' The "ïsea rnen's Unfun, he, 
said, would not de- vint from iib latitude and the shipping tumpnny vvnc 
eiiuully lirm> The coin

 pnn> hud a|wa,vii endeavoured to meet

 the men,' but< In' this case a .principle, was involved? from which it wah 
.not disposed to 'diverge. , '

 ¡Sir John said that passengers nad been allowed to sleep abourd the Zea- 
landia on Saturday and Sunday nights ' They hail been provided .with. hreaMast' 
on Sunday,'and with breakfast and luncheon yesterday,- nnd-hnd been per- mitted 
to sleep aboard hist pight tJ,i*> sengeis had been Informed thal their 
passage-money would be refunded.

 The staff a't, lluddart. Parker Ltd.'s branch office h'ad their busiest day 
for yeuis. answering, inquiries from an- xious passengers and busine«s firms. 
Jinny who had booked for Bvliney had their passage-money' refunded; ' More than 
£R00 wns paid out by 5 p.m. ln^ this manner. . ''' ' " *

 Perishables Discharged

 Hudduit, Parker Ltd. announced yes teiday that perishable'goods,loaded 'or 
Sydney would be dlachaiged ftoni the Zealandia, and consignons were re- quested 
to remove them from the whait.

 The goods comprised 'J.liOU half-casec of, apricots, 2,700 half-cai.ee of 
plums, and 252 bags of peas. Some of the apri- cots will be shipped via 
Launceston lo Jlelbouine,, but the lest of the goods: will be thrown back on 
the bunds of glowers for disposal on the local mar- ket, if their condition 
permits, or wast- ed altogether.

 This position is particularly unfor« túnate for growers, as Tasmanian f-esh 
fruits and vegetables were commanding good prices on the Syd- ney market. Green 
peas were real

 ¡ling as much as £1 bushel, apricots up to 12/ half-case, and plums up to 8/ 
half-case. Growers have no means o{ recovering losses experienced- on account 
of shipping hold-ups, and the dispute will be a costly business tor

 them.

 The Hobart office of Huddart, Parker Ltd.. vyas crowded yesterday with 
stranded pasbengers anxious to. learn whether there was any possibility or the 
Zealundia sailing. Many of them were placed In a most unenviable position, 
having run short of funds and being unable to secure meals and accommo- dation 
ashore.

 Mr.' M, Mainwaring,"a resident- of Stanmore, a suburb of Sydney, waa brief 
and to the point when asked to comment on the hold-up "This is my second visit 
to Tasmania " he snid. "and It.will pt-obably be the last." Mr Main- waring is 
anxious to gtt back to his place of employment, and has no other means of 
returning to Svdnev

 Mr. Mainwaring, however, was not ' so badly situated as four girls whom

 he met aboard the ship on Sunday ?..night. They had saved up enouph

 money for the trio to Tasmania, «nd when they pooled their resources on 
Sunday they had 7/6 between them. The sirls were without accommoda 1 tion, and 
had no friends in Hobart

 with whom they might stay.

 Second Experience

 A mauled woman of Sydney, vvho preferí ed not to disclose her name, said 
that she had visited Hobart on ,two'occasions. Three vears aeo she

 fiad .been stianded in Hobart because

 of a general shipping stiike. and now ?she was agoln In a similar position 
be- cause of the trouble on the Zenlnndln. She told a representative of "The 
Mer- cury1' that she would think twice be- fore having another holidav in Tas- 
mania.',,

 . Aliqther inlendlng passenger com- plained that the shipping company had 
left him in Hie dark as to the position. "The only news we have had," he «nid. 
''is that our passage-money will be re- funded ifvvve-require It. We are Just as
 much In the dark as we were at 5 tim. on Saturday."

 , Two Tasmanian» who had booked ' by the 'Zealandia with the intention

 of joining the Niagara at Sydney on . Thursday have had their plans upset

 and may have to cancel their intended trip to New Zealand. They are Messrs. 
A. Newett, of Warrentinna, and J. H.. McDougal, of Ranelagh.

 Mr. g1 Alting. of Liverpool St., Syd- ney, vvho had booked a return secdnd 
class passage for £5/10/ said the com- pany had offered to refund £2/v15/. or 
half the leturn fare.' It would cost him more than that anutunt to get back to 
Sydney by other means, and he would not accept the proffered refund. He said 
that he and ninny other.second rlass passengers had been put to great 
inconvenience and added expense by the hold-up.

 Passengers were Informed yesterday at the "office of Huddart, Parker Ltd. 
that they could sleep on hoard the ship last night, but wcie given m> assurance 
In regard to subsequent nights.

,  WASTE OF MONEY j

 ¡Attitude . To Municipal j

 Conference j

 .pHE Kentish Council on Sat-

 urday decided, not to be' represented at the annual con- ference of the 
Municipal Asso- ciation and the annual meet-

 ing of the North-western J

 Municipal League.

 The opinion was 'expressed that the municipality had not derived any benefit 
from the municipal conférence, and that it was a waste of money to sond .. 
delegates to Hobart.

 lt was considered that to be consistent thc council should not be 
represented at the an- nual meeting of tho Municipal League either.

,  Princes' Attitude On |

 Federation: t !

 , . BOMBAT,-June 13: I

 Princes representing 100. '.States | agreed to'a motion that tho conditions |
 of the all-India Federation plan-.were | not acceptable but urging .Britain 
not I to .abandon "the project..

,  ¡West Coast

 NON-UNIONIST

 QUESTION

 Workers' Attitude

 Endorsed

 The attitude ot members of the Aus- tralian Workers' Union to the non- union 
question on the Lyell field was endorsed unanimously at a meeting of the 
Combined Unions Council . at Queenstown last night.

 The décision was reached following: a report that A.W.U. members on the 
field Intend to ceaBe work on July 111, If non-unionists are. not' financial by 
the. previous day.

 No information was available as to the attitude, other unions will adopt, 
but lt was stated a special meeting of the council would be held on Monday 
night, when- the A.W.U. delegates will submit a further report on the posi- 
tion. .

 : The president of the council (Mr. J. T. Mathew), after the meeting said: 
"It ls deplorable that a union on this field should have to threaten to stop 
work because men will not join. The A.W.U., however, seems most de-

 termined to 'clean' the position up."

,  RUMANIA'S     FEARS    

 Seeks Attitude    

 Of Turkey    

 ANKARA, November 7.    

 THE Rumanian Ambassador    

 to Turkey spent several     hours at Ankara conferring     with the Foreign 
Minister (M.     Saracoglu) to ascertain Tur-    

 key's attitude in the event of    

 Russia attempting to regain     Bessarabia.     A meeting of representatives 
    of Rumania, Greece, Turkey,    

 and possibly Yugoslavia is ex-     pected to take place shortly.     The 
German Ambassador to     Turkey (Herr von Papen),     after visiting Belgrade, 
arrived     at Sofia and talked with Bul-     garian political leaders to as-   
  certain their views before     going to Ankara. He may re-     port to Herr 
Hitler.    

,  COUNTRY PARTY I

 Attitude To Composite

 Ministries

 SYDNEY, July 24.

 The attitude ot the United Country Party towards negotiations for . com- 
posite Ministries In the Federal and State spheres will bo debated at the 
State-wide conference of the party on August 7 and August 8.

 The electorate council of Cowper, Sir Earle Pngo's constituency, has for- 
warded a resolution expressing ' ap- proval ot the policy recently enunciat- ed 
by Mr. J. P. Abbott, chairman of the central council of the party. Mr. Abbott 
advocated conditional support ot the Menzies Ministry, but no coali- tion. The 
Tullamore branch ot the Farmers and Settlers'.Association has forwarded, a 
resolution urging that tho Country Party should remain a separ- ate entity, 
except In the event ot politi- cal emergency.

,  NEW ZEALAND

 POTATOES

 Government Attitude

 On Embargo

 Tho following- telegram has heén sent to the Premier (Mr. A. G. Ogilvie, 
K.C.) by the Circular Head Council:

 Suggest you advise the Prime Min- ister that the importation of New Zealand 
potatoes be controlled by the Potato Advisory Connell, with the ob- ject of 
stabilising the market at not less than £15 on tho Sydney wharf, for the 
benefit of Australian growers.

 Growers are perturbed that the om bnrgo has been lifted.

 Tho connell received a reply from Mr, Ogilvie stating that the Minister for 
Agriculture (Mr. Cosgrove), to whom the telegram was referred, considered that, 
lt the Government acted on the council's suggestion, it would, in effect, be 
agreeable to lifting the New Zealand potato embargo under certain condi- tions. 
The Minister wns of the opinion that the Government should take the attitude 
that the lifting ot the embargo una not justified, and that the respon- 
sibility for such an action must rest with the Commonwealth Government.

,  EXERCISE OF DOGS

 Attitude Of Greyhound

 Racing Club

 A special meeting or greyhound own- ers, convened hy the Launceston Grey- 
hound Racing Club, wns held at Laun- ceston last night to discuss the man- 
agement and training ot dogs in the city area. It was decided that endeavours 
be made tu obtain a ground for the gen- eral exercise and training of grey- 
hounds, and that owners be requested to kepp dogs off footpaths. It was decided 
also thal an appeal be made to owners and trainers to exercise dogs to avoid 
annoyance to the public.

,  NEW ATTITUDE

 ADVOCATED

 Australian Policy Towards Japan

 TOKIO, December 6.

 Sensational statements by Mr. Tom Walsh, of Sydney, formerly secretary of 
the Seamen's Union, are appearing in

 the Japanese Press.

 In an interview with the "Nichi Nichi Shimbun," Mr. Walsh denounced 
Australia's anti-Japanese policy plac- ing an embargo on exports of Yampi Sound 
iron and obstructing trade. If this policy were persisted with, it would give a 
good case for the forcible open- ing of Australia's vast resources to teeming 
millions. Further, Australia should have an alliance with Japan, which would be 
the only protector against Communism if Britain succeed- ed in crushing Germany.

,  : JAPAN'S ATTITUDE ! ! TO SUGGESTED j i MILITARY ALLIANCE !

 I! CANBERRA, May 23. ?

 í . rrHE Minister for External ! I Affairs (Mr. Gullett) de- ? ! dined today 
to disclose the I I official advice' of Japan's- atti- J I tude toward« the 
suggestion of J . a military alliance with other t ? nations. I I In the House 
of Representa- I I, tives'he said that messages had j I been received regarding 
Jap- , J an's position, but no-good pur- | ! pose would be served , by dis- I I 
closing them at the moment. .

,  PRESERVATION

 OF YOUTH

 ,--««"T-:

 Attitüde "of Mind

 In the Town Hall, Hobart; last even- ing, Mr. W. Shalsespeare-Bltlks, lec- 
turer of the Universal Opportunity League, spoke on "youth-Not a Time, but a 
State of Mind."

 Referring to the preservation or re- newal of youth, Mr, Blnks indicated 
that one's age was determined by such factors as faith, hope and courage. If 
the mind were directed In the right ohannels, the spirit of youth could be 
maintained, no platter how long a per- son lived. The attitude of iho mind had 
a direct bearing upon the cells of the body. Birthdays should be regard- ed not 
as milestones along tho journey to the grave, but as marks to Indicate how long 
one had been on the road to

 happiness.

 Mr. Blnks urged his listeners not to be timorous about the future, but to 
make plans for many years ahead.

 At the Town Hall this evening, Mr Blnks will lecture oh "The Psychology

 of Radiant Health."

 I -»

,  CHINA CAUTIOUS

 Withholding Her

 Attitude

 LONDON, September fl,

 Tho Chlneso Government', is with- holding any Btatemont likely to be In- 
terpreted as Indicating China's attitude townrds the European situation, as the 
position ls very complicated and deli- cate for China. The official Chinese 
Army Journal urges Russia to moro positive steps in tho Far East now that her 
western frontier dangers have been

 removed.

 Admiral Hart, Commander-in-Chief of the United States Asiatic Fleet, ar- 
rived at Shanghai unexpectedly from Tsingtao. It is believed he is study- ing 
the position of American nationals all over China in the light of events In 
Europe.

 At Shanghai . the British Embassy announced that 16,000 German Jewish 
refugees have hoon classified ns enemy subjects. A "white Hst" may be Issued 
later. .

 Thc British United Press corres- pondent " in Tokio says the four sus- 
pected Chinese murderers of ' a Cus- toms official, the withholding of whom by 
the BrltlBh was one of the causes of the Tientsin blockade, have been handed 
over to the Japanese authori- ties.

,  RETURN OF COLONIES

 -?

 Royal Empire Society's

 Attitude

 Suppoit of the attitude of the Bilt

 ish Government ictaidlng the clilms for the return of foi mer colonies to Ger
 manj was espiossed In a lettei fiom the Roy ii Lmpiie Society lead at the in

 nuul meeting of the Tasmanian biam-h

 it the society at Hobait >c»terda> vii C H Pel kins was clialtman

 1 he tasmanian branch sought the opinion of Hie Roval Lmplio Socletv on its 
attitude The îeply stated that the council of the society had consll cied the 
position and had decider! to take Its stand behind the policv of the Biltish 
Government as declared bj the then Secictarv tor Dominions (Mrs MacDonald) in 
Decombei Mr MacDonald then said I do not believe that theie is todnj anv 
section of opinion in this countiv which is disposed to hand over to any othei 
country the erne of jnv of the tenltoiles or peoples for whose fcovetnment we 
aie îcsponsible either as a colonial 01 mandu tory Powei

 Ihe annual leport of the branch dis- closed a decrease in membeiship from 86 
to 77 lho accumulated balance of the proportion of members sub«crlp

 lions and pot Mon of subset Iptions (or the current j car amounting to i.3-0 
had been foi vv aided to hcadquaiteis The ci edit balance was £S2

 The tepoit was adopted

 Di J B Hamilton suggested the pos- sibility of holding the annual meeting on 
the afternoon of the day on which the annual dinner was held That ar- rangement 
would enable meetings to be held at Launceston

 The suggestion was referred to the council

 Ihe dato of the nnnuil dinner was left In abejanee pending a conference with 
the new piesldent

 Ofliceis elected vveie President Blr Johri Rnmsa> vlce-pipsldents Messrs A 
Peddei and lulioch Scott sea dan Mi T J Cm ter trcasuier Mt H V Wilson council 
Sir John McPbee Mr \\ H Stiutt MLC Dr 1 B Hamll ton Messrs F "tt Heritage \ 
Mlllei J B Whvte C H Perkins L H M Averj and "N Ga tenby

,  SATURDAY CLOSING

 IN NORTH

 Government Attitude

 Defined

 REFERENDUM HINT

 The attitude of the Government re-

 garding Saturday morning closing In . Northern Tasmania was defined again by 
the Premier (Mr. A. G. Ogilvie. ICC), yesterday.

 The Premier said lt appeared that misapprehension had arisen In regard to 
the Government's Intentions. In some quarters in Launceston and on the 
North-Wcst Coast, there was an erroneous Impression that the question of 
Saturday morning closing would be decided solely on the views ot the Re- tail 
Traders' Association, and the em- ployees' organisations. The views of those 
bodies naturally would be con- sidered, but it was not correct to as- sume that 
thc Government could dele- gate entirely its responsibilities to out- side 
bodies.

 "The undertaking I gave on behalf of the Government, was that we would not 
Introduce legislation to bring about Saturday morning closing lu Northern 
Tasmania until there ls an unmistak- able public demand for the change," said 
tho Premier. "The question is not one merely for employers or employees, but it 
is ono that concerns the whole com- munity. I would emphasise again the fact 
that tho Government does not In- tend to force Saturday morning closing on 
business establishments in the North, but is nnvlous to interpret the views, not
 only of the organisations immediately concerned, hut of the community as a 
whole. Probably the only way to de-

 termine these views will be by means . nf a referendum ot all the electors."

]
Urls: [http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25596302, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25592112, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25623023, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25583510, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25616015, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25583410, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25603501, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25769711, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25788597, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25786649, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25585614, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25790940, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25579943, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25593477, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25785496, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25777247, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25759104, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25599753, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25614473, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25581170, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25580492, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25787932, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25612951, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25600453, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25627440, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25606065, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25581089, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25622169, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25621520, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25611876, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25771475, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25596648, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25601200, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25607505, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25762642, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25601684, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25580435, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25781333, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25589620, http://trove.nla.gov.au/ndp/del/article/25610157]