Article ids: 
[25596302, 25592112, 25623023, 25583510, 25616015, 25583410, 25603501, 25769711, 25788597, 25786649]

Article bodies:

[ JAPAN'S DOMINEERING

 ATTITUDE

 IT is now possible to form an

 accurate estimate of the real

 attitude and intentions of Japan. The Japanese Prime Minister, left them in 
no doubt when he said that the conversations with Brit- ish representatives in 
Tokio con- cerning Tientsin would be broken off unless Britain agreed to ac- 
cept the Japanese right to build

 a new order in the Far East. This

 is the last word in unscrupulous- ness when it is demanded that another 
nation shall assist in ag- gression.

 According to "The Times" cor- respondent in Shanghai, the Japanese military 
authorities blame the British for their failure to overcome the Chinese. These 
things are all part of the general plan intended to eliminate British power and 
influence from China, and it becomes clearer with every utterance, either of 
Ministers or Army leaders, that this and this alone governs their methods.

 The continued delay regarding a settlement of the Tientsin, dis- pute is 
another means of be- littling Britain. It is by now ob- vious that unless 
something much more drastic than repeated pro- tests is offered, Japan will 
main- tain her impudent anti-British policy. The economic blockade is within 
the capacity of Britain, and is apparently the remedy which Japan fears most. 
It seems as if the moment is near whea it

 should be applied.

,  STATE GOVERNMENT'S ATTITUDE

 (JLAIMIXC1 there «ns no Justification I

 for the suggested removal of the embargo, the Minister for Agriculture

 (Mr.-R. Cosgrove) yesterday outlined | the efforts made by the Tasmanian 
Government to ease the restrictions In regard to grading in view of the recent 
shortage of supplies.

 The Minister said thut the Govern- ment had consistently opposed the re- 
moval of tho embargo. It had the full support of the Potato Marketing Board and 
producers' organisations In Its at- titude. He was advised that Tasmania could 
supply Its quota for the Austra- lian market, provided there was a slight 
modification In the standards. If this were done potatoes could be supplied at 
a price which would enable many more consumers to purchase than under existing 
conditions.

 After consultation with the Potato

 Marketing Hoard yesterday, lt was pointed out to the Minister for Agri- 
culture for New South Wales that, In view of the heavy rain ' after many weeks 
of drought weather, lt was ex- pected that some tubers would develop growth, 
cracks, and other slight ab- normalities calculated to affect the ap- pearance, 
rather than the quality. It was suggested that No. 2 "A" grade bo permitted to 
enter New South Wales. If so lt would have a steady- ing effect on recent 
prices.

 The Minister pointed out that while abnormally high prices were not good for 
any industry, the consuming public had, In several years in tho last decade, 
secured potatoes at considerably less than the cost of production, and the 
higher prices now ruling would recoup growers to some extent for prevlou«

 losses.

,  SOUTH AFRICA'S

 ATTITUDE

 STRANGELY must sound thc

 words of the Prime Minister of South Africa (General Hert- zog) in the cars 
of British people. Referring to the statement of Mr. Chamberlain, that the 
whole Em- pire approved of the guarantee to Poland, General Hertzog dis- agreed 
and said he doubted thc accuracy of it. Maintaining that the Dominions were not 
bound by Britain's commitments in Europe, he refused to permit a debate on 
.loreign affairs.

 Had these been the views ex-

 pressed in a hostile country, little surprise could bc felt. But com- ing 
from the head of one of the Dominions the)' have a peculiar meaning, lt is true 
that the Do- minions are not bound by Brit- ain, but it is also true that they 
depend on British strength for their existence as part of the Em- pire. 
Possibly General Hertzog

 does not like the connection and

 would prefer something different.

 Under General Hertzog's lead- ership, South Africa has deposed the British 
flag from its position, eliminated "God Save the King" as the National Anthem, 
and has constantly asserted that he re- serves the right to be neutral in any 
war affecting Britain. Neu- trality in such circumstances would seem to verge 
perilously near hostility. "He who is not with nie is against me," should 
express the opinion of the Empire in regard to General Hertzog.

,  Britain's Attitude Perfectly Loyal

 jyj^ BONNET'S eagerly-awaited

 speech in the Chamber of Deputies proved most important and covered a wide 
range. Mr. Winston Churchill (the British Conservative), listened In the 
strangers' gallery.

 Referring to Spain, M. Bonnet- slid that the part Italy «*as taking co*ild 
not be Ignored, but the arguments against Intervention remained.

 "We consider It Is for Spaniards alone to settle their own affairs," said M. 
Bonnet. "We «ill not alio«* our com- munications with North Africa to lie en- 
dangered by foreign troups in Sp-iin or from Morocco or from Spanish islands. 
When we informed our British friends o( this viewpoint they perfectly under- 
stood us. Britain's attitude has been per- fectly loyal, France has Interests 
to de- fend in Spain. We cannot allow any interference in Spain to extend to the
 point of threatening French Integrl'v. The Burgos Government has let it be 
known that it will not alio«' any foreign Po«*er to settle in the country 
(another version was that General Franco told us he «*ould not allow any 
foreign domina- tion In Spain). Britain is no less men- aced regarding Malta 
and Gibraltar

 Complete Solidarity

 "I can therefore affirm that there is complete Anglo-French solidarity on 
this question," said M. Bonnet, who added that the British Foreign Minister 
(Lord Halifax) had informed him that Britain would not accept any infringe- 
ment of Spanish territorial Integrity,

 M. Bonnet said that Britain and France would ask nothing of anyone, but 
intended to preserve their patri monies. The entente was never so

 close.

 It was directed towards peace, but in the event uf war all the forces of 
France would be placed at the disposal of Britain, and similarly all the forces 
of Britain would be placed at the disposal

 of France.

 M. Bonnet reiterated that the policy of non-intervention In Spain was 
?unchanged.

 M. Bonnet declared that the Franco British axis «-as as strong HS any in 
Europe. France «'anted to seo Britain develop her military power to the maxi- 
mum, just as Britain wished France to

 do likewise.

 Referring to the Franco-German peace declaration signed in Paris., II. 
Bonnet said it was but the first step towards pacific collaboration. War would 
be a misfortune for both nations.

 Turning to Franco-Italian relations, he recalled that during the last con- 
versations In Rome between Count Clano and M. Poncet it was agreed that the 
only differences related to Spain. Three weeks later Italy denounced the 1935 
Agreement and France replied that «he could not accept Italy's vle«'point 
because no political act on her part justllled that denunciation. The French 
Government felt that the British Government understood this viewpoint'

 perfectly.

 "France is determined to maintain the integrity of her umpire," he said "Let 
there be no ambiguity. Nobody may lay a finger on our Umpire. France will not 
permit any attempt against what has been built up by Preñen blood bravely and 
she «ill keep her in- dependence and her territories Intact.''

 Support in America

 M. Bonnet, alluding to the Far Enst, said that the Government wns deter- 
mined not to allow any attack against French interests. "We shall not admit 
that an agreement like the Treaty of "Washington can be unilaterally de- 
nounced," he said. "Engagements with the Soviet and with Poland con- tinue, and 
must be carried out In the spirit In which they were contracted.''

 With reference to Frunco-Amerlcnn relations, M. Bonnet said: "Every dny we 
feel that public opinion In the great

 M. BONNET

 French Foreign Minister, who said that France wai determined to maintain the 
integrity of her

 Empire.

 i

 American demociacj Is coming closer

 to us

 Discussing the possibility of an In- ternational conference ho said that the 
Go\einment «as willing to convoke such a confeience If it «eie found ne tessury 
in the inteiests of colliboi a tion The ni mamen ti lace threatened to biing 
l^uiope to bankruptcy or war but they must be«aie of dlsippolnt

 ment

 He concluded b\ saying 'Manne has teco*>ered her influence und Is read\ for 
an\ eventualltj 'Mobilisation in Sep tembPi showed hei Using as one min She 
«ould do the same again Those abioad who aie counting on Trench decadence ha\e 
cruel suiprises await- ing them

 The speech was applauded by all Deputies except Communists and So

 clalists

 1 JIP Chambei by 609 \otes to nil ngieed to a confidence motion drawn up bj 
the Radical Deputy M Teij as fol- lows The Chiimbei appio\es the Gov- ernment s 
declination and is confident in its \igllnnce to maintain the integiity of the 
French Emplie and the safet*, of impel lal louies

 M. Daladier Outspoken

 1 he Pi ime MInl«ter (M Daladier) spoke stern words to Itali duilng the 
Chamber of Deputies debate in which M Bonnet made his speech He ssid amid 
applause tiance has heard threatening wolds fiom Italj in com- plete calm She 
has the strength to en- able hei to iecel\o such insulls calmly \Mieie\ei 
trench Inteiests ale con- cerned Trance must meei demands « l'h categorical 
firmness. Not one inch of territoi\ will be ceded Allow me to de- cíale with 
foice that Hiance canrot toleiate an\ attempt against hei terri loilal in te-, 
i it \ against her African or colonial emplie oi against hei fiee com- 
munications whethet maritime or olhetulse between the metropolis and hei emplie

 Deputies at this stage io<-e cheering thunderousl)

 M Daladier continued 1 am well aware of the gra\ltj of the piesint 
cliciimslanies when I allirm this Our task tomonow will be hard and formid- 
able I ask 1 lance to be unanimous In defence of her material empile and ideals 
In a «orld in which foi ce plijs so large a pal t

 The Chamber again lesounded wth an outburst of patilotlc enthusiasm and the 
long foieitn affairs debate then ended The vote ot confidence In he Oo\ el 
nment «as cal lied b> 360 \otes> to 1.134

,  STATE TREASURER'S ATTITUDE

 .J^HE Treasurer (Mr. E. Dwyer

 Gray) expressed the hope yes- terday that the Federal Parliamen tary'Labour 
Party would not preju- dice its position by sanctioning defiance of thc law by 
any section of community, once the National Register Bill became law. Mr. 
Dwyer-Gray is one of the'represen tatives of the Federal Executive of the 
A.L.P. on the Federal Labour Advisory Committee, a meeting of which has been 
summoned for to- day at Canberra. Owing, to the short notice he received he 
will be unable to. attend.

 Mr. Dwyer-Gray said the other repre- sentatives ot the Federal Executive "t 
the Australian Labour Party on the Federal Advisory Committee were two 
representatives each from the Federal Labour Tarty and the Australasian

 Council nf Trades Unions. He had re- ceived on Wednes- day a telegram from 
Mr. D. ' L. McNa- mara, M.L.C., Ked rra 1 secretary of the A.L.I'., nsking him 
tn attend a meeting nf the Advisory Committee at Can- berra today, to dis- cuss 
the Xn tiona 1 ' Register Hill. He

 had replied that the

 notice was ton ' short, and that he

 would be linn ble lo

 attend unless the meeting was held in Welbourne nu Monday, or at Canberra on 
Tuesday. Mr. McNamara had re- plied that the mn tier was considered ur- gent 
and that the committee would meet .today. This meant lhat someone else would 
have lo take his pince on the committee tor that particular meet- ing. ; - :

 Mr. Dwyer-Cíniy said thal as far as he was concerned he had nut changed his 
views regardln;; any aspect nt pre- paredness, nnd'cnncitrred with the view 
expressed by the Tasmanian Ijtbour Conference In April that "there should he 
forthwith' Instituted n compulsory national . register for both men' and

 women, and also ot material assets to'

 asrertain the physical, material, indus- trial, and financial resources of 
the na- tion."

 "Should Be Observed"

 Differences ot opinion on such a mat- ter were natural and entirely 
legitimate, but actual breaches of the law would not be. He trusted, therefore, 
that, If thc Federal Parliament instituted nny sort of compulsory register the 
require- ments of the law would be observed by Australian democracy. Any type ot
 proposed opposition tu law, except vio- lence, was allowable In a democracy, 
but once the law-making Instru- mentalities of a democracy passed In actual 
law, they should be faithfully observed unless and until they were 
constitutionally altered.

 "I, therefore, hope that the Federal Parliamentary Labour Party will not 
prejudice its position beTore the pub- lic by approving of any defiance of the 
law by any section of the community," said Mr. Dwyer-Gray. "I would have said 
that at the Advisory Committee if I were in attendance, and conse- quently I 
have no hesitation in saying it in public, when I will not be in attendance."

 Mr. Dwyer-Gray said he could not understand the argument thal a com- pulsory 
register would facilitate thc conscription of men for mllitnry service, since 
under the Defence Act the Men- zies Government could conscript every- body in 
Australia today, following a simple proclamation that Australia was imperilled 
by Invasion.

 Threatened Action

 MELBOURNE, June 8.

 Seven delegates representing groups were appointed today by the confer once 
of Federal unions with members employed in "key" industries as a sub- committee 
to investigate ways and means of implementing tho "Industrial action" 
threatened In the event of any trades unionist being imprisoned for refusing tn 
sign the national register.

 This committee will submit a report and recommendations to the conference 
when lt assembles after the meeting of the Labour Federal Advisory Com- mittee 
at Canberra tomorrow.

 Mr. E. Dwyer-Gray

,  STOP PRESS NEWS

 ÜRErfÖH ATtiruM , . .

 PAftl$. January SÔ.-^ovéinAÎM .Xpact»d-TO»fflnn «Wet iton'intorviia.

,  President's Attitude

 WASHINGTON, July 1.

 Officials today disclaimed knowledge that there was any bnBis for London ru- 
mours that President Roosevelt ls will- ing to participate In a world problems 
conference, but recalled his recent mes- sages Io Herr Hitler and Signor Mus- 
solini offering to act as a "friendly in- termediary" in the settlement of Euro-
 pean differences.

 They said that should such a confer- ence be called by another Power, and 
Germany and Italy expressed willing- ness to participate, there was a prob- 
ability that the United States would Join the conference in the role President 
Roosevelt previously had outlined.

,  NATIONAL DISUNITY

 Australian Attitude

 Deplored

 The disunity amone political parties In Australia with regard to the prose- 
cution of the war was deplored by Mrs. V. Mary Parker at the annual confer- 
ence of the Australian Women's National League of Tasmania at Hobart yesterday.

 In Great Britain there was a unity of opinion among all peoples, Mrs. Parker 
said. There was only one object, and that was to win the war. In Australia, 
however, there were party factions and sniRll coteries which criticised the Gov-
 ernment and would not assist In the programme designed to bring the war to a 
successful conclusion. They were doing everything they could to hinder what wns 
being done. Women could help to Inculcate a spirit of loyalty among tho people. 
Unity wa« essential and everyone should unite to fight tue

 common enemy.

,  SERVICE PAY

 Brighton Council's

 Attitude

 "With, the object ot giving a lead to employers ot labour In the district, 
the Brighton Connell at Its meeting at Pontville yesterday decided to make up 
any deficiency In pay for a permanent roadman called up for military ser-

 vice.

 lt was reported that a man who recently was appointed a permanent roadman 
Itnd been called up for 30 days' training at Mona Vale.

 Councillor C. H. Eddington said he felt il was thc duty ot the council to 
give a lead to employers of labour in the municipality. He moved: -

 The council pay any difference in thc salary ot Its permanent roadman dur- 
ing the 311 days he is called up for military service.

 Councillor B. C. '1'honipsou seconded and the motion was agreed to.

,  "NO CHANGE IN ATTITUDE"

 THE Finnish Foreign Minister, in a

 statement on Friday, said that Finland's attitude to the Russian pro- posals 
remained unchanged. "They would be offensive to us in peace time," he said. "We 
have accepted about two-thirds of them, but there is a limit to everything.

 "They have asked for a cession of land north from Leningrad, islands in the 
Gulf of Finland, and the lease of land on the southern coast for a mili- tary 
base."  

 He denied that other nations had in- fluenced Finland and said that Rus- sia 
must overcome her suspicions. Finland took her stand independently.

 In a broadcast, the Prime Minister made it plain that Finland could not make 
concessions inconsistent with her integrity and independence. He said he 
understood to a certain degree Rus- sia's desire to protect Leningrad, but 
added that the Soviet proposal to es- tablish a naval base in the Gulf of Fin- 
land was incompatible with Finland's sovereignty and neutrality.

 The Prime Minister added that Fin- land would defend herself if invaded.

 Sweden Attacked  

 Sweden is attacked in the semi- official Soviet paper "Pravda" "for 
supporting Finland," says a Moscow message. "Pravda" asserts that Swedish 
politicians are "under the orders of Destern bosses," and adds:

 "Russia must ensure the sea and land approaches to Leningrad, whose 
population is equal to that of Finland.

 "The position of the Finnish Foreign Minister (M. Erkko) is similar to that 
of the former Polish Foreign Minister (Col. Beck), when he provoked war with 
Germany.

 "Russia will cast to the devil all

 political gamblers' games, and tread her own path, despite everything, 
smashing every obstacle on the way to her goal."

 It is reported in diplomatic circles that Madame Kollontal, the Russian 
Ambassador to Sweden, flew to Mos-

 cow last week at M. Stalin's request in order to apprise him of the 
situation in Scandinavia. She urged him not to antagonise Sweden and Norway in 
the Finnish negotiations.

 It is believed that if Finland makes a stand, supported by Scan- dinavia, M. 
Stalin, rather than re- veal Russia's weakness will prefer a compromise to war, 
but if Finland weakens and Scandinavia adopts an indeterminate attitude, Russia 
may suddenly move.

 Madame Tabouis, whose assertions must be accepted with reserve, sup- ports 
this testimony to the extent of declaring that M. Stalin's new slogan is: "Keep 
out of Finland at all costs and come to terms with her."

 NEW YORK, November 5.

 The position of neutrals in northern and south-eastern Europe is reviewed by 
the editor of the Paris "Soir" in a despatch to the "New York Times." He says:

 "The small neutrals can do little be- cause of their weakness.

 "Among the Scandinavian nations, only Finland has the resources to en- able 
a guerilla war to be carried on against a Russian invasion, but she would be 
unable to save the coastal cities.

 "Diplomacy no longer has much to say. Scandinavia, and Britain and France 
can do little until Norway or Sweden are directly threatened and call for help, 
which is unlikely.

 "Should Finland be attacked, which I do not expect, it would unfortunately 
be doomed and its resurrection must await the final peace."

 Press Hostility

 Mr. G. E. R. Gedye, the "New York Times" correspondent in Moscow, says it is 
undeniable that the Soviet Press makes the Russo-Finnish situation very grave.

 "The present display of hostility to Finland is due to Soviet annoyance at 
indications of foreign sympathy and support, and it is doubtless desired to 
reduce the Finns to a proper humble- ness," Mr. Gedye continues.

 "The first warning in M. Molotov's speech failed to shake Finland's de-

 termination; the second is given in 'Pravda's' article, which may imply a 
threat of military action, but is more likely to be intended to fright- en the 
Swedes from supporting the Finns, thus destroying Scandinavian unity, and may 
presage a war of

 nerves.

 "Immediate developments depend on the Swedish reaction to Russia's open 
hostility."

 ROME, November 5.  

 It is reported in Rome that 80,000 Soviet troops have moved to Karelian, on 
the Finnish-Soviet frontier.

 BERLIN, November 5.

 The Wilhelmstrasse expresses com- plete disinterest in the Finnish-Soviet 
talks, "because the Finns are not pure- ly Aryan."

 It is expected that Russian troops will cross the Finnish frontier in the 
next few days, hoping that a limited advance will compel the Finns to yield to 
all the Soviet demands.

]

Urls: 
[/newspaper/25596302, /newspaper/25592112, /newspaper/25623023, /newspaper/25583510, /newspaper/25616015, /newspaper/25583410, /newspaper/25603501, /newspaper/25769711, /newspaper/25788597, /newspaper/25786649]

